is going live ah all right we don't get
a countdown when we record these things
live off the cup
all right i thought i would make a
youtube video updating
anyone who's interested in the year 2021
and possibly to stand as a monument
for my own children or grandchildren to
see in the year 2031 or the year 2041
about the seven year long process
of my divorce from my first wife as of
this date of recording
the divorce papers finally are on the
desk
of the judge so in legal parliaments
obviously they're not
literally sitting on his desk but all
the paperwork is done
all the agreements have been signed by
both parties and now finally
my lawyers in canada will declare us
divorce that will declare me
single and my ex-wife also now in
reality
my ex-wife has long since moved in with
another man
she has had a child with another man i'm
happy for her believe me
you know go screw up his instead of
mine delighting
there is absolutely no whinge of envy or
jealousy in me
believe me and in this video you'll get
a sense of the divorce in retrospect
interesting that is not just because it
has been a seven year process of getting
divorced
um i'm very happy that she's moved on
but my point is
uh both her and i our lives have
continued to progress for seven years
since the start of the on paper divorce
process so it's it's a somewhat
ridiculous situation
um i'm going to talk about
the whole context of what went on in my
life over
20 years also leading up to
the conception of my daughter how i met
my wife
and then how we split up and i'm gonna
be honest with you
it's not that long story it's really not
and it's always been funny to me
whenever people wanted to gossip about
this
or make up uh make up stories with the
internet
they were never watching the youtube
videos that already disclosed details
would happen they also weren't reading
the articles
on my blog the blog is called a balacial
same name as my
more popular youtube channel i have a
couple youtube channels the best known
one is called the palace y'all
there's always been a written account of
i can't quite say blow by blow what
happened in in the divorce
uh partly just for concision there are
some steps to get there but you know
what the truth is the truth is about
that written account
the main things that are omitted are
things that would be unflattering
to my ex-wife i have never wanted to
come out on the internet and say
terrible things with maxwell and and
there are terrible things i could tell
it's actually really always been my
agenda to give a very flattering
and that sense like one sided
view of the events like i really just
don't want to
portray her as a bad person honestly
that's not even like for my daughter's
benefit really it's not
it's not really for anyone honestly it
just has to do with my own sense of
personal integrity
like it would be bad for me it would be
irresponsible
for me for who i am to not even to
slander her to tell the truth about
terrible
this i really just don't think you know
and just say for any of you in the
audience
everyone is six degrees separated from
somebody you probably know somebody's in
that situation whether they were famous
or infamous or unknown you know so
anyway i will answer questions in the
audience guys
so uh one person asked when's the next
discord link
okay so we'll digress this will be fun
we're doing this live so we're gonna get
some get some other topics
so uh someone with the catchy name
verplex asks
when's the next discord lick um
there was one morning when i woke up and
sat down at this very desk i think
melissa was not awake yet i routinely
wake up
earlier than melissa does and i didn't
just sit down on my computer but i
started doing the computer
and i started cooking my breakfast and i
went to the bathroom
i was you know i was kind of moving
around the apartment
but i was back and forth to my computer
for 40 minutes
responding to the stupidest nonsense
imaginable on this discord server it was
it was exactly the kind of conversation
that many years ago
already i said i would not have this
conversation with somebody unless i were
being paid
you know look you know there's ethics
and integrity and there's there's money
involved
like if you think about yourselves uh
would you
you know under what circumstances would
you really be someone's therapist
would you really help someone and guy i
know what you're thinking
it would be wonderful to be someone's
therapist that's not who i'm talking
about
someone you don't sympathize with
someone you don't like someone you
consider
stupid and dishonest and maybe even evil
you know therapists have to be kind and
sympathetic that
terrible human beings who have no
friends a therapist is someone you are
paying
to pretend to be your friend quote me on
that um you know
part of being a therapist is that you
get paid and i'm sitting here after
40 minutes at my computer answering this
imbecile on discord who isn't even
showing any signs of good will or
intelligence
and again i wasn't sitting continuously
for the 40 minutes i'm sure
i would have changed my attitude
happened i was kind of getting up moving
around getting ready for my day and
maybe
you know stacking up the books on the
table so to speak
i look at the clock and realize it's
been 40 minutes
never again not another four minutes not
like this is exactly what i swore i was
never gonna do on the internet
not unless i'm being paid i mean you
have to ask yourself then well if i'm
being paid 300
an hour am i going to talk to this
person for hours you know maybe that's
different
maybe if you take on the role of a
therapist or something it's like
i cannot believe i gave this anonymous
stranger 40 minutes of my life
and and that particular morning i was
writing my book as of this moment i
still haven't finished writing my book a
lot of time goes into
writing the book it's like wow i don't
need the
intellectual exhaustion i don't really
need the emotional energy to go in this
is just
terrible and that very
that minute i mean the people other
people were on the discord the other
people there were witnesses maybe some
of them are in the in the audience now
it was gone like guess what guys this is
being deleted from my life
and look there's a listen there's a
lesson here for for all y'all you know
you got to make those decisions in life
i think about really seriously you know
how i spend time and how to waste time
most you guys know this from talking
about quitting video games
but even talking about exercise at the
gym and stuff i had a period of not
going to the gym
i am again now but you can let it get
out of control you can spend three hours
a day at the gym
you've got to think about it am i going
to listen to podcasts or not
i take those things very seriously and
by the way anyone who really reads books
oh
i've still got the books on camera if
you want to read just one of these books
um the number of hours you spend reading
the number of hours you spend running
the number of hours you spread spend
talking to your
friends about their emotional problems
you know melissa my girlfriend is a huge
priority in my life i basically do talk
to her about
every little thing that's on her mind
and all of her problems but how many
people
can you have that kind of relationship
with like maybe maybe it's just one you
know
i mean um how you take on those things
what have you
so yeah uh oh and we've got some people
there who are reading some of the books
that i've uh
have endorsed lately so james mentions
that he's got salvation
so okay the digression from a digression
i am picky about which translation of
salas i've got to say
okay bless you autograph for me yeah i i
actually have a photograph
of a bad translation of soloist on
cataline
i translation that i purchased and i
returned i got a refund for it
and then i bought this one with a much
more much more horrifying cover there
i look you know what me and this guy
we're the same age with the same it's a
vegan diet
that's why i've aged so well do you know
that we're the same age
you know this image crunchy black if you
don't know the rapper crunchy black
looking
same age crunchy black's looking worse
than this guy
seriously it's it's amazing vegan diet
guys
i'm not vegan for vanity i'm vegan for
ethics and ecological reasons
all right this is good talking to the
audience this way will break up what
otherwise could be
kind of a boring story so i'll tell you
the story i'm here to tell today
one reason i don't talk more about it
is because it's boring because nobody's
interested like that's
and that's a real authentic thing
another thing is my tendency to censor
myself because i don't really want any
say anything uh
that condemns uh harshly my ex-wife that
kind of says she's a bad person and this
is all her fault
and we are talking about a story in
which
you know my ex-wife was a bad person and
these things are all her fault i mean
that's real there are things where you
know you
sometimes you've got to talk about that
in life if you're going to tell the
story so you know
there's one carefully worded that way
there's also you guys might remember
this in some of my videos talking about
my parents uh like my relationship with
my parents when i have life
i've always said look this is my story
to tell
and this is like my father's story to
tell and it's it's not my father's dead
you know it's not self-censorship it's
like look i feel it's appropriate to
tell my
sorry my story was over here right
my story and talk about what i know and
what i'm authoritative about
but i'm not i'm not going to try to tell
his story even though he he can't tell a
story he never will
there's also you know kind of a sense of
that all right
and look you know um
a lot of people go through this somebody
asked or i can scroll up
somebody asked so frida in the audience
asked
would you recommend anyone to get
married say yes
say yes absolutely sure no i'm you know
on a pragmatic level and very
pro-marriage you guys probably know i'm
not religious
i'm an atheist i don't believe in
christian marriage whatever
um you know i think it is similar to
asking
would you join the army well
it's very hard to make that decision at
age 18. right
now i think this is speculative maybe
i'm wrong i think if i joined the army
at age 18 it would have been a disaster
i wouldn't have had the self-knowledge
and i wouldn't have had the discipline
you know what i mean i wouldn't have
been able to make that work now
any of you in the audience who are over
the age of 18 can ask yourselves what if
you had gotten married
at 18. and many of you probably were in
love with someone at 18.
who's that that uh famous singer britney
spears
okay many of you either had a crush on
britney beerus herself
when you were 18 or you wanted to be
with someone very much like
britney spears now here we are in the
year 2021 and you can look at the life
britney spears has lived and you could
you can reflect on
what your own life would have been like
if you had married britney spears
you know it's one of those things it's
not really that marriage is bad
it's that it's very very hard for people
to make that decision
and deal with it at age 18. and in terms
of human fertility
you know what i mean so someone just
wrote in from the audience that he or
she
got married at age 20 and is now getting
divorced this year
so you know they but look
talking about human fertility women you
can't wait till you're 35
you can't and in terms of men in terms
of your desirability there is this myth
that men remain attractive till they're
50 or 55 years old
let me tell you something let me tell
you
you know as a man when you are 25
you got options everywhere i went in the
world
women were crawling out of the woodwork
to sleep with me when i was doing are
you kidding
women i remember a woman who was 10
years old and me hitting on me and
trying to get laid with me in a hotel
lobby i was checking into a hotel room
so yeah she was she was a white
business woman she was wearing a power
suit so like
i was like no
melissa made a joke this was good no she
wasn't because you know how young i was
she wasn't he wasn't that old anyway you
know what i'm saying like
yes you know there's a sentiment in
which men can remain presentable
into their 50s or whatever but no i mean
there is a lot of uh there was a lot of
uh
pressure on both men and women to get
married
young and reproduce young and it is very
hard to have
the self-knowledge and the
self-discipline you know
so so lydia is in the audience uh and
what do you complain lydia you have
another channel that's
blocked i have no i have no memory of
this maybe one of my old mods block you
lydia or maybe you were really correct
maybe you were disrupting the channel
five years ago or something last time i
don't know sorry lydia i've
any other questions about things that
happened five years ago anyone want to
talk about vegan cheetah no anyone
anyone want an update on durianrider and
the lawsuit in thailand
technically legally it's still an open
case in chiang mai guides and
when was about a year ago i last got no
update from the the lawyer i got an
email
i think i think about one year ago we
moved into this apartment but yeah
yeah yeah so you know in in theory
there could be hey there could be more
progress on my
court case with durianrider than in my
court case with my ex-wife
so right uh uh first things we'll talk
about we're gonna do this real real
postmodern all right
so uh present tense i am employing
two lawyers i have a lawyer in canada
and have a lawyer in france so this is
how the story ends
is that you ended up dealing with one
political process
just to deal with the divorce in canada
and then one political process to deal
with custody
now i just want to clarify custody
legally at least in france
means seeing your kids at all so in some
cultures or some countries
people talk about visitation as
something different than custody or
whatever
not the case in this context custody
means like if i get to see my daughter
for one day
that's custody legally in france so
negotiating custody
means negotiating spending time with
your kid at all now
i wanted to avoid this and you know
we live our lives
in the sunlight of positive
expectations about the future and in the
shadow
cast by disappointments we've had in the
past all of my sorrow
and all of my suffering in this divorce
in this court case in this struggle that
spend time with my daughter
it's really been created by false
expectations
about what the legal system could or
couldn't do for me
so my current two lawyers i'm very happy
with one very
straightforward guy in canada who has
had a very straightforward job
the canadian side this in this phase of
the case the end of the story
has not been complex and i have a a a
very sophisticated lawyer
in france but who is also very blunt and
honest with me in a way that none of my
other lawyers in france were i don't i
don't want to count how many lawyers i
went through in france we could in this
video
i've been through a series of lawyers in
france
some of which were really terrible and
really dishonest with me
um another interest an interesting story
worth telling
for some i mean this is the kind of
thing like i don't come on youtube and
say hey
let me tell you the story about this
terrible lawyer i had in the past
uh just because i think nobody's
interested which is
it is for the right person that could be
a really valuable youtube video to make
if the right person sees it
hey here are some problems i've had with
lawyers here's what went wrong and
here's what you can do here's what i
wish i knew
before i got in situation but in terms
of the sorrow and suffering in terms of
the emotional
reality of going through this process uh
the worst
thing was the false hope
presented to you by the legal system so
this is vegan by the way um
my current lawyer in france just says to
me straight up like
nope all this is hopeless like
absolutely nothing positive is possible
like the best possible deal you can get
out of the french legal system is like
what you had before
which basically just means you're going
to see your daughter at christmas and
maybe on one other
vacation of the year and that's it like
you can see her during christmas break
and during the kind of a middle of the
summer holiday
there are some little minor differences
there but
nothing the french legal system for you
as the father is going to give you
nothing more and possibly less like
that's how the french legal system
so if someone said that to me straight
up the beginning i would not have been
tormenting myself
for example about joining the french
military right i you guys know i've
talked about my channel more i did look
at joining
the canadian army i actually went
through the applications process and
took the intelligence test and went to a
bunch of meetings with people
you know so i got fairly deep into that
but another possibility would have been
for me to join the french foreign legion
and you're cut off from that i think age
36 and a half
it's a very peculiar it's not an even
number it's not 30 or 40. it's like
it's 36 and a half or 37 and a half or
something you know what i mean
and you know there was this sense of
like oh if only
i had joined the french war legion
another moment i used to regret
was i was living in china this was when
i just moved from kunming china to dohan
china
and there was this one court hearing so
some of you guys already know the story
so hearing these things that a border
won't be won't be that's
confusing for you but this was the
period when i had been
declared legally dead in france
and the term used in france in french is
that you are missing without a trace
so in english we say missing in action
we have different idioms for this kind
of status
but you are declared missing and
presumed dead
under the law and then you lose all your
legal rights and there can be a court
case against you where you have no
representation
and where nobody uh you know uh
whatever where other lawyers speak on
your behalf and where nobody's there to
represent you you're not there and your
lawyers out there
and anyway in the united states of
america um
if you google around there are cases
where people have their house taken from
them or their car
taken from this kind of thing like there
are fraudulent papers suggesting they're
already dead
they disappeared without a trace so in
my case
my ex-wife was relocating from
france to germany which i would have no
problem with by the way i wouldn't
oppose her but i am guessing
speculatively that that spurred her to
get her act together
because she was afraid and it has been
expressed she had fears
to me that when she crossed some of
these borders when she went from
france to germany or from france the
united states of america this kind of
thing
that i would be able to intercede and
say hey wait that's my daughter
i have legal rights over her and this
woman is in effect like kidnapping my
daughter or something i could cause a
problem
now the thing is guys morals
i've got them from day one
in this divorce it has been completely
clear i would never do anything to hurt
maxwell i would do never do anything
even make her life difficult
so again i think it's cool to tell the
story how to order this way
but we'll jump back to this this period
when i was legally dead
legally declared missing that dress in
just a sec you know but like
right from the beginning uh my whole
attitude was well
my ex-wife at the beginning said that
she wanted to move to the united states
of america
that she would either be based in new
york city
or in seattle
and my perspective was okay well i will
move somewhere
that's far enough away that we don't go
to the same grocery store
like we don't bump into each other but
where i'm close enough that i can be
there and help like you know i can both
take the kid on alternating weekends or
whatever like you know we can we can do
co-parents and we cooperate
but also like if she had an emergency
where she went to the hospital she meant
to get there right away where i could
get there quickly
so in case you guys don't know the
geography is a little bit confusing
where i'm living now and where i moved
at that time
victoria british columbia canada you can
take a direct ferry
from victoria to seattle
now it's not ins what takes three hours
or something for
i don't know it takes a few hours but
for sure
you know if you've got a kid in a
divorce that links uh victoria to
uh seattle that's a good combination now
another combination like that you know i
could have moved to montreal
if she were going to be in new york you
can take a bus between uh
you know montreal and new york you know
pretty quickly and easily so this was
the kind of thing i was looking to do
and it's 100 just to support her
so if my ex-wife had said she wanted to
go to new york city i'd say hey that's
great i'm so happy for you
she has different again i'm not telling
her story she has reasons why she would
want to be in new york city
uh if she decided to be in seattle again
she has reasons there's nothing to do
with me
nothing new with microsoft she wanted to
live in seattle i would say hey that's
great i'm happy for you
and i'm not gonna move in next door
i'm not gonna move i'm not gonna be
looking over the backyard fence over you
i'm gonna be a three hour drive away or
something i'm gonna be a respectful
distance you got to live your life we're
divorced
we don't want to be together but i'm
also close enough that when you need
help
you know because things happen you go to
the hospital with a broken leg you know
i really need someone to help me out
something like that things things happen
you have a problem you can you can call
me and i can show up no and also
generally we could co-parent on
a schedule but like whatever she wanted
to do
if she wanted to go to berlin germany
because there was something positive to
do there
i'd be happy for her and that's you know
there i would not have stopped her
moving to germany
or hawaii or thailand i mean if she had
some positive reason to anything in her
life
i would have been positive about it and
for many years
my schedule was open in case you guys
haven't noticed before i've been doing
youtube my schedule was open and i could
have moved
almost anywhere in the world to make it
work but for her it was really
the united states of america
specifically new york and seattle that
we talked about
all right so this was a digression from
a digression but step by step
we're getting the whole story told and i
was digressing from the point about the
period in which i was declared
legally dead missing without a choice so
you know at that stage of the story um
there was this haunting
possibility because i was in de hong
yunnan china i was in a remote part of
southwestern china
and there was this one hearing where my
lawyer briefly spoke before a judge
and where basically all he had to get
across was this guy is not dead
this guy is alive he's well he wants to
exercise his rights
and there was inappropriate paperwork
presented to the french government now
this is haunting him anyway so
i could have been there i would have
just stood there and said nothing it
would have been a huge amount of money
and at that time i couldn't do it
in terms of so is which airlines you can
use and so on
you had to do something like getting
from
yunnan to hong kong and then from hong
kong to paris
or you had to get from yunnan to bangkok
and then flipping
but at that time and the situation i was
in it was not just a lot of money
and a lot of jet lag i was just about to
start my new job there were a lot of
kind of concerns
and the particular situation i had with
the airlines like which airlines you
could use and which you can't
because of the point system it's like oh
well you can fly with
emirates air or they do that but you
can't use emirates you have to use this
other
you have to use cathay pacific it's like
they're all these kind of weird rules
at that time it didn't work
and but no that doesn't mean it was
impossible right like if
i could have taken a train across russia
right like you couldn't say you could
have gone to beijing
and taken the train from you know
beijing to moscow and moscow to paris
like it wasn't
impossible but it seemed it seemed
almost impossible it seemed so hard to
do
and as far as i knew from the lawyer all
you were going to do was stand there and
say yeah i'm not dead guys
yeah hi this is me this like i've never
been dead
and there wouldn't have been any other
possibility but for so i didn't get
there in person my lawyer represented me
and what haunted me for years was the
possibility that everything could have
been better with the divorce
and the custody arrangement if only i
had made it there if only i'd gotten
there to be there in person
i'd just be here but now i know so to
say you live your life
you know in the sunlight of positive
assumptions of the future
and the shadow cast by positive
assumptions you used to have about the
future
that have been shattered that have
proven to be false so
you know um
i now know from my current lawyer's
advice that absolutely nothing
more is possible that that what as as
nasty
as the writ i got from the judge was
i got the writ from the judge and i read
it in french you know
and in french i could tell it was
insulting towards me
like my knowledge of french is you know
i have high school level french or
something you know i
have some level of literacy in french
but i did actually pay a translator to
translate in english
at least one year later maybe one i
forget it was a year later year and half
some of that
but some time later i got the money to
get there and paid a translator to
translate the judge's
judgment and then only then that i was
actually really insulting against both
myself
and my ex-wife the judge had a really
low opinion of both of us she thought we
were both losers
said all this nice stuff but uh so that
too gave me the impression like oh if
only i'd been there i've only been able
to plead my own case
everything could have turned it better
but what i now know
is that if i'd been there in person it
could not have made any difference at
all
it wouldn't have helped that that you
know the outcome the actual
so there's a series of these things
where it's like oh if only i joined the
army
if only i had gone to france to attend
that day in core maybe i'd think of that
now another one so some of you guys
might have guessed this i don't know how
attentive or i don't know how much you
guys read between us
you know i had lawyers telling me and
again i now know this is completely
false they say well
if you can just get a regular low-paying
job that's going to help with this going
through the courts
so that was one of the reasons to go to
baking school and become a baker
it's like you have a path opening in
front of you and it's like well i can
get a master's degree and a phd i can
stay in academia
but that's many years of work leading to
uncertain employment if at all and like
the type of employment you get it's kind
of
bits and pieces here and there i can
become a baker
and then have a regular contract and a
regular i was going to say nine to five
job but it's probably like a four a.m
to 11 a.m job or something you know can
work at a uh i got a question from the
audience is this cranberry juice
so this is in fact a low sugar cranberry
juice
this is one of those calorie reduced
cranberry juices which
uh and it's diluted and of added water
so this is maybe three quarters or four
fifths
uh water among my talents is actually
not forgetting the topic i was on while
digressing to answer questions in the
audience
so thanks thanks for that that question
for you
um yes where were we
uh there were these haunting
possibilities that everything could have
turned out better for me and my daughter
if only i had joined the army if only i
had
become a baker if only i had managed to
make it to this court date
and then also i've alluded to the fact
i'm happy with the lawyers i have today
but i had several really bad lawyers and
then there's a haunted question of well
what if
i'd had a better lawyer what if this
lawyer hadn't let me down
what if it hadn't been so hard to find a
new lawyer
after that lawyer quit you know what i
mean instead of these gaps in the
schedule where
you're sending emails every day trying
to hire a new lawyer and nobody who
wants the case
you know what uh these are sorry these
are also big problems
with the american legal system the
canadian legal system but i have learned
with the french
you know legal system it's it's really
ridiculous you can talk about
you know equal rights for all humanity
well guess what humanity does not enjoy
the equal right even to get divorced
you know so it says you know look guys i
i know i'm not poor
um and just to mention you know my
parents started having money
really when i was in university um when
i was in high school they were still
pretty broke and that's related to the
fact that my father had nine kids
with innumerable different women i'm not
all with one mother
but you know i didn't grow up rich and
my parents didn't have money when i was
in primary school and
uh even high school really but i am
aware today i am enjoying the privilege
of money earned
kind of before i was born wherever you
want to put it you know
and uh you know that my parents my
parents success in their careers even
though that success came
as they say more like at the very end of
high school than when i was in
university or something
uh they started making money uh
you know even someone in my position
can't get a lawyer and can't get
divorced in france
you know where you can't at any price
like even when you're saying to these
look
i have money i can put cash on the table
today
and you still can't get a lawyer you
still can't get it done you know so how
much worse is it for people who don't
have that kind of money
now i said to my mother at one point and
she did not
enjoy me saying this term but sometimes
my mother and i joke around
we do we have a much better relationship
today than we had 10 years ago or
something believe me no comparison
but this this was a circumstance in
which she she did not uh
from my perspective i was joking around
she did not take this job i said so tell
me
you know tell me gail gail's appeared on
my youtube channel by the way there are
a couple videos calendar
says tell me gail you're a member of the
order of canada
you're a knight because she's been
knighted can't she's received a
knighthood
and you'll member of the what is it
called the honor guard in france
she's a chevalier in france she's a
knight
in france forget what they call it the
order of the chevaliers
chevrolet is literally like horsemen you
know it's literally she's a knight
yeah okay you are you have been knighted
in both
france and canada and you
are not in a position to be able to find
a lawyer for your own son to get
divorced like
there is no favor you can call in
there's no email you can't there's
nobody
i just need a normal confident lawyer
for a
very simple divorce you know my ex-wife
and i
we didn't own a business together you
know we don't have any property we
didn't own a car
together there's nothing to divide to
speak of
right and i mean you know i just
mentioned it is also
uh interesting um you know in the only
divorce papers we have from france
my ex-wife says she's going to pay me
several tens of thousands of dollars in
settlement
which is for a real reason legally so
legally at the time of separation under
french law she did owe me money uh
that is basically because of the laws
against abandonment
uh in france that the situation was you
know
the months leading up to my daughter
being born and us separating this is
interesting in many ways
you know she was a university professor
and i
had been a university student so she was
financially the sole provider
in the relationship and when we broke up
in taiwan
she just abandoned me without even
enough money to buy an airplane ticket
to go back to
canada so you know that is exactly
what french law is supposed to prevent
like if you decide to split up if you
get divorced even if you both have an
income but one of you guys more income
you are supposed to take the time and
spend the money to make sure that the
other person
you know moves into a new apartment or
moves moves back in with their parents
and they can get to where they need to
go there is actually a legal
obligation the other person so that is
probably in the paperwork
several points including the judge
saying it the judge comments on it
i'm forgetting but several tens of
thousands of euros
my ex-wife was supposed to pay me now
the amount of money that has been spent
on lawyers and airplane tickets
and vacations to see my daughter says
that so much money has been wasted in
seven years
for nothing that obviously that
some my ex-wife promised to pay me which
i didn't negotiate with her science
states in the legal doctrine states that
she's about to pay me this amount of
money but she never did
there was never any promise made between
the lawyers but it's she said it to the
judge
said to the judge that hearing and it's
in the record of the court documents she
was going to pay the settlement
probably she said that the judge so that
the judge wouldn't
evaluate the case in terms of
abandonment in terms of that uh
that moral obligation you know um
yeah i'll just trail off and leave that
leave that paragraph
uh i'm finished
so much money was wasted over that seven
year period someone's writing in saying
do more live streams
uh that's my plan so i know there were a
lot of people who were live streams back
when i did them on younow
um i've been thinking a lot coming back
something talked about um
whatever 30 minutes ago or something
earlier you know i think a lot about how
i use my time
and i think the channel i'm thinking
about
making more of my content live stream
discussions of what i've been reading
what research i've been doing what i'm
writing about what i care about in
politics
uh what's happening in the news in that
sense
so you know shifting to a mode where i'm
living my life
and then i'm talking about it on youtube
instead of really
creating content for youtube
now the problem with that is twofold one
not that many people are interested in
what i'm reading i mean it's important
stuff it really is let me just give you
an example here
this is the kind of this is the kind of
digression that makes it more
interesting to listen to what i talk
about his divorce i think
yes this is this is a book titled the
machiavellian moment
from about 1975 uh won a bunch of awards
back then
this is about the extent to which the
political philosophy of machiavelli
was much much more important to the
writing the american constitution
and uh the history of politics in
england and western europe
than anyone today realizes or gives
credit for
okay for me to make a youtube video on
it it's very daunting and it's going to
be counterproductive it's not even going
to reach 500 viewers
it's important yeah that's why i bought
the i paid money for this book it's not
a library book
you know it's important it's meaningful
i want to put some time into it
but you think well maybe this can reach
an audience if i'm just coming on and
doing a live stream and i'm answering
your questions i'm interacting with you
guys
uh talking about this and that but i'm
also talking about hey guys
here's something i've been reading
here's something really interesting
about
political history united states and
western europe and machiavelli
maybe that can work but you know the
question is when you do that kind of
mixed format
where the format is i'm an intellectual
living my life as an intellectual
who wants to come along with me you know
i mean this is the research i'm doing
this is what i'm learning this is what
i'm working on
and you know even a lot of the time
there's stuff going on in the news and
politics i have a lot to say about
currently melissa here's what i have a
lot to say about politics
every day i do paul it's sometimes it's
contemporary politics sometimes it's
history
sometimes it's world war ii or ancient
athens or whatever
i mean i'm talking about you know i'm
talking about uh historical uh politics
all the time too but you know
the problem is you will be making
youtube videos where the title of the
video doesn't have any particular hook
for any particular audience
you know as a as opposed to you know if
you pick a
okay so someone just suggested
israel-palestine video right
okay well if you have a video that's
just about israel-palestine
maybe someone googles that and maybe
they choose your channel and maybe they
give you a chance to say oh okay that's
a perspective maybe it's not you're not
going to reach very big audience that
way
if you do a video something i've done
many many times and you talk about
jake paul or onision i would love to
imagine
that 10 years from now in the future 20
31 someone's going to watch this video
they're going to say
who is jake paul who is an issue
it's very unlikely to be watching this
and saying where is israel
what is palestine i think that conflict
will still be going on 10 years ago i
think they'll know exactly what we mean
by that
but yeah you know where you you you make
a video where there's a clear hook
okay people are interested in this
people are googling this and then
they're gonna see my video
they're gonna hear what i have to say
about political philosophy morality or
what have you
so you know this is this is for me
it will be a big change and look you
know i'm
i'm not complaining but you know i have
to take this on
with the humility of knowing you know
there are really only a few dozen people
who will be there when you're when
you're broadcasting live
and how many people am i going to reach
with that content later a lot of my
viewers do like to listen to my stuff
while they're washing the dishes
or while they're doing stairmaster a lot
of people do like it when i have long
format
one hour two hour videos so they're
advantages advantages i know i mean a
lot of my
they'll be fine oh okay one hour talking
about various
political and philosophical and
historical and ethical and current
investing okay
some some people will be down for it but
i think all of you might be surprised at
how small the instead is
currently in the last couple of months
you know about 50 percent of my viewers
are new
which is surprising to me uh and a lot
of people probably don't like my content
they're probably people who come
watch a video hate it never come back
but you might think that all my views
are from regular viewers and they're not
in any given like if i have 80 000 views
in a month according to youtube 40 000
of them are new
so either 40 000 of them are actually
new or i have a lot of viewers who are
using uh
software that doesn't let youtube track
them you know i mean they're people who
care about their privacy
and they're using the kind of setup
where youtube regards them as a new
viewer every time they come back as
they're
getting rid of their cookies they're
using one of those privacy rules this is
possible that's something we can't
measure
so yeah with all due humility we're
probably going to be looking at a period
of time on the channel
where the quality of the content is
going to increase
the depth and meaningfulness of the
content is going to increase
the amount of interaction i have with
you guys in the audience i'm reading
what you're saying right now
will increase but probably my audience
is going to fall in half
that's that's my prediction maybe we
come back three months from now and say
oh no you were wrong
this is way more approachable that's you
know that is a question
because i know not everyone has the
self-confidence to sit down and watch a
video that opens with me in this very
confident very masculine way these are
not my words people
write and complain i've seen complaints
that my style is too
macho how how can i be more effeminate
come on
come on guys but people are and also
people think i'm right wing for that
reason this is very
confident heterosexual presence on
camera
coming down and saying look guys you
think you understand what's happening in
xinjiang china but you're wrong and now
for the next 15 minutes i'm gonna tell
you how wrong and ignorant you are
you know i i get it that's not so
approachable so it is
possible that the more relaxed joking
format of these
live streams that you're experiencing
right now it is possible that will reach
a larger audience but if i'm making
bets i gotta say i i kind of doubt it
all right so you know
first things last let me tell you a
little bit about my life and
you know some of you guys won't know
this um
and some of you will probably stop and
wonder why it is you have never
asked so in the year 2001
so we're going to bring up go up to the
birth of my daughter
the divorce real quick there is not that
much to say
in the year 2001 i started studying
pali and cambodian in
canada now still to this day i believe
if you google it
there are things posted on the internet
maybe a couple from late in the year
there are things on the internet from
2001 of me
uploading and scanning things reflecting
the fact that at that time i was
studying the cambodian language and pali
in canada so already back in
uh 2001 i was studying those languages
and thinking about pursuing a life that
combined
humanitarian work and research in the
field
um you know i was reacting against
the kind of intellectual and moral
inertia
of my professors at the university of
toronto
i saw how those guys had lived their
lives i thought i'm not going to end up
like you
and i was again i was looking at
studying the ancient
classical literary language of buddhism
and buddhist philosophy pali
and also the modern language of cambodia
i was interested in the the reality of
uh of life cambodia was today as well as
the history
so that's 2001. we were recording this
now in 2021 so it's my
it's my 20-year anniversary i should
also mention
i am going to respond to some of these
things in the comments guys i should
mention at that time
i considered seriously not doing pali
not doing cambodia instead
doing ojibwe cree first nations
languages in canada and committing to
that
political scene and there were different
reasons why i didn't
uh take that path at that time i i would
later
as it will unfold in this uh 20 years uh
resume in my life
um but you know one of them was
having to move out of my parents house
immediately um
my relationship with my parents was bad
to say the least
and we had a period of fully 10 years
of not talking to each other to jump
ahead now it
probably didn't start from that moment
in 2001 probably something like 2003 to
2014 or something we didn't
i'd figure out exactly what tenures were
but i remember when i finally did talk
to my father again after
after 10 years this is just a little
anecdote that's illustrated he was very
much in denial that we hadn't spoken for
10 years
he would he would talk to me like he
just talked to me two weeks ago or
something you know
and i said to him right at the beginning
of the conversation his first time
talking over the phone in more than ten
years
really really i think maybe been 11 or
12 years but for since a phone
conversation been a long time
uh maybe i'm wrong anyway i've been a
long since jennifer and i said
well look can you hear me okay you know
the last time i talked to you you were
really going deaf and you had a hearing
aid and like
is this like is this okay or should we
be typing like you know how how
deaf are you now and he got furious at
me and he started
yelling at me that you know he had had
this surgery to improve his hearing
more than 10 years ago and how could i
say that and that was totally wrong i
told her like he was kind of like are
you delusional
and so after he yelled at me this way it
tells you tell me what kind of comment
that was
um i said to him yeah we haven't talked
in more than 10 years the last time i
talked to you
was before you had that surgery and you
had a hearing aid and you were going
down
you know and he just said he just wanted
he said whoa
i guess it really has been 10 years
he's still uh he's still you know he was
still kind of small town canadian
already said that the same way it's kind
of canadian
uneducated canadian stereotype he was
still a guy who grew up in him oh
i guess you guys we really haven't dog
daddy
that's right so anyway one of the
reasons why i did want to commit to
doing
there were many reasons but one of the
reasons to get out and go to cambodia
now
instead of taking some other path again
was i gotta move out of the house and
never attack
my parents again and that was one way to
do it so another solution i could have
joined the army or something didn't even
consider it i talked about that with my
girlfriends the other day
after september 11 2001 joining the army
would have led to a whole different life
for me
did not even consider it i did uh just
to tell you a little bit more about my
life 2001
i did apply for and start the process of
joining the police
police officer um again that's not a big
deal you don't really go to training
sessions that's it you go to information
sessions but go to the police station
and talk to people and find them
so i considered you know quite a few
very fundamentally different paths in
life but in 2001 i was already studying
the ancient
philosophical language pali and the
modern language cambodian
and i was assuming i was going to move
to cambodia forthwith
i ended up eventually in cambodia but i
lived in quite a number of other
countries
in asia first all right nacho business
says
uh did you ever regret the decision to
cut contact with your
parents no um you know
okay there is this illusion in western
culture that you only mature
between like ages 11 and 18 or something
or even let's say between 11 and 24.
you know people mature
all the time you guys are getting more
mature today
you're going to feel 10 years older by
the end of this live stream
anyone who stays here for the whole live
stream will feel 10 years older
you know my father changed between age
50 and 60 and between 60 and 70
my mom changed between 50 and 60 and 60
and 70.
and no um the decision to stop talking
to my parents
was good for me um
you know was it good for them is
actually a very
very different question i think there
are a lot of people who would benefit a
lot
from cutting off their parents for 10
years a lot of people
in western culture certainly like i
don't know if we're talking about i mean
like it's really different i have some
friends who are muslim who are from you
know muslim family
they're atheists because they're my
friend you know they're my friends but
you know people who are born and raised
in in muslim families
that's a very different question you
know do you cut your parents off and
stop talking to them whatever
there are different cultural situations
but if you were growing up speaking
english
in the western world i think there were
a lot of people for whom a ten-year
hiatus or a 10-year silence
italian is is really the right decision
and it can help you mature and can help
them mature and i mean something i had
to say to my parents again
and again over those years was um
actions have consequences
you know if you do this to me
there are consequences and everybody's
parents are different but i'd say with
my parents and with a lot of parents
uh it can be a real challenge for the
child
to lay down the law that way and to draw
the chocolate and say
no there are limits there are rules and
there are consequences
for you if you break your word to me
if you let me down if you lie to me if
you manipulate me
if you abuse me let's use a really vague
word
you know actions have consequences and
there are a lot of children
you know who grow up at some age or
another
and they have to in that way laid on law
now you know
um when i started talking to my father
again he already knew he was gonna die
well i think he thought he was going to
die within a year he actually lasted a
couple years two years or three years
after that
uh sorry i should be more precise for
maybe it was even five years it was
he died several years but you know the
doctors told them you are gonna die
like now and he thought he was going to
die soon and he admitted to me openly at
that time when he was talking to me
he was expecting to be on his deathbed
he had some operations and things that
extended him for
he got like an extra three years out of
an operation that he didn't know he was
going to get kind of thing
but um you know
he admitted to me that he really missed
you know my friendship
he missed having conversations with me
about politics
having a conversation with history and
so on that he really valued that that he
really
you know he really appreciated having
someone in his life who could challenge
him intellectually
and whatever and i can certainly see it
from his
perspective his life must have gotten a
lot lonelier when i disappeared from it
uh you guys you guys know i like to talk
about politics yes
but you know my father had such extreme
and eccentric use on politics
i mean he he would tell these anecdotes
not getting the irony many people if he
tried to talk about politics with him
they would just humor him they would
regard him as crazy
and oh yeah you know you know they would
kind of smile at him and chuckle but
wouldn't really respond they would
regard him as someone who was
trapped in a dream and in some ways he
was i mean to talk to him you had to
kind of
drag him out of that dream world and say
no this is this is reality in front of
that
and i think you know i will say this i
don't
believe my father ever had another
friend
as as good as me that during the years i
talked to him
i was more of a friend to him than than
anyone else
he'd ever had now after we stopped
talking
he might claim he had other friends who
were that good
but what he mostly had around him were
flatterers and syncophants
and uh people who didn't really probably
mr sycophant
sycopheth flatwares and sycophants
there's a little audio typo for you
um and you know that's partly because of
who he chose to spend time with who who
chose
to spend time with him there there's a
lot of different kind of filtering
factors that way
but no i don't think he had anyone else
who really sat down with them and said
no
like you know what you're saying about
joseph stalin is wrong
and what you're saying about yugoslavia
is wrong what you're saying about
economics is wrong and
what you're saying about population and
demographics as well and really talking
about those things and kind of very
you know you know caring but
aggressively i did i did care about him
i didn't talk to him in a cruel way
or rarely rarely was i was that cool and
you know he
he laughed a lot in those conversations
too in case you guys are thinking this
is this is just fighting and he was able
to
laugh at and enjoy that stuff but no i
definitely before
i came into his life my father did not
have anyone he could talk about that
stuff with
and i would suspect that after i left
his life he didn't have
anyone i could talk to that way um even
though because of his ego he would
probably claim that he did
and i saw the way he interacted with
other people and yeah it was sad
so anyway i say this now this is now
2021 and we have no
idea what's going to happen with me and
my daughter this way will we move on
if you guys are all watching this
youtube channel in 2031
will my daughter be a character on this
channel or maybe more likely maybe my
daughter sends me emails
and then i answer for questions oh my
daughter wrote in asking about politics
or philosophy that's conceivable to me
that my daughter could become a
character in my life that way
she could be someone who challenges me
about politics and disagrees
maybe my daughter will be right-wing
maybe she'll be left-wing who knows
you know we don't know about what my own
interactions my daughter are going to be
in the future
yeah anyway so there you go heavy heavy
answer to a heavy question the original
question was is it a good idea to
to cut off you know your own parents for
for ten years but yeah
you know in my case for me it was the
right thing to do and i was saying was
it really
a good thing for you know for my father
or for my mother
it would have been a lot of work for me
to get through with them get for me to
get through to them
in those years you know what really
helped was that when i came back
decades later various things had really
humbled them
and it was hard but you could get
through to them
oh it was real my girlfriend seen some
of that is not easy
but you know when you talk to people who
don't
care about the difference between true
and false
the difference between right and wrong
it's
very very hard very very hard to address
anything whether it's pragmatic things
in your personal life
or political things it's a very very
hard situation to deal with
um and that is my situation with my
parents and it has been my whole life
since i was a child you know and i say
that there are people who will tell you
my parents are brilliant there are
people tell you my parents are geniuses
or
at least that they're highly
accomplished and so on i know that
they're not
you know that was also what was i think
valuable for my father was someone who
could really
challenge him on his i knew
like i knew the difference between what
he had read
like what if he'd actually read a book
or if he had just read something in a
newspaper being said about it but i knew
that difference and i could tell even
from the way he was thought i could
catch those things
but he was able to go into the world
talk to his own employees he just
his own employees were afraid of him
they didn't want to be fired whatever
they
you know they wouldn't want to talk back
to him and you know he'd be able to just
you know dilate on any issue he'd be
able to speechify on issues he really
didn't know anything about
and there wasn't there wasn't any
pushback that way so yeah i mean i think
also
um you know look it's an interesting
question different people ask me i've
got some very flattering email lately
from a professor
a guy with a phd in a traditional i got
an email professor
and the main thing he was writing back
okay he wrote to me about the substance
of my videos
but he said again and again that he's so
impressed with just the quality of my
performance so to speak he said your
manner of speaking and talking about
ideas and philosophy and history and so
on you know i think the
extreme hostility of the house i grew up
in
i think it really does explain that why
from an early age it's like i had to
adapt i had to develop my ability
to argue my own case or die you know
like it was really growing up in a very
very hostile
um household where you had to argue on
your father it's something i've said to
different i've said to kind of many
different people in my life like people
i've known intimately and personally
when they have their own problems there
are no challenges but some of that to
say again again people is
if you don't argue your own case
who will if you don't stand up for
yourself who will and a lot of those
people in my life
whether these are kind of girlfriends or
just men who are my friends whatever but
they're people who know me personally
i think a lot of them grew up with very
protective parents
and on a deep level they assume there's
someone else to argue their case
there's someone else to stand up for
them maybe because their own parents did
that maybe their older brother did or
not too
but you know i grew up really knowing
and feeling an
understanding if i don't argue my case
nobody will
and you've got i've got to be prepared
you know to deal with anything and
everything deep or shallow
you know profound or you know um you
know
i've i've got to be ready really 24 7.
um and i am
and i live that way to this day and you
know again i know you guys only see me
on youtube you might think i do a lot of
preparation for me because
i don't i put in the camera and go and i
sometimes i just i've thought about
something for two minutes while i was in
the shower
and then i go and that's it but if you
guys ever meet me at an airport
or at a at a conference at a political
event you will see i am ready to go
at any time you can talk to me about
aristotle or you can
talk to me about you know buddhist
philosophy absolutely anything i am
ready to lecture at a university
professor level
on all topics at any time and other
people like when i was at cambridge and
so on they
noticed that they noticed the difference
well there are these other guys who can
go away for two weeks and prepare and
then say something halfway intelligent
but this guy
with no preparation you know he can he
can deliver
you know this kind of stuff so that's
that's the difference and it's reflected
in the whole way
of life okay frida asked a question some
number of minutes ago
she asks did your father ever get
disillusioned
with communism okay so
it's an interesting question because of
the wording
there's a difference between being
disillusioned with something
and ceasing to believe in it so you see
what i mean you can be disillusioned
with the catholic church
and still be a true believing catholic
like okay you realize the catholic
church is totally corrupt
but you might even become more committed
to it because you're trying to redeem it
you know what i'm saying in that sense
you know my father was a
uh you know my father was a combination
of both
like you know you so if you're asking
was he disillusioned with communism
yes but you know he never lost his grip
on
communism whether or not communism you
know lost
its grip on him to my knowledge right up
to the end as an old old man
wearing black leather pants and driving
a bright yellow sports car
he went to communist party meetings in
downtown toronto canada
where he would have stood out like a
sore thumb
what a bad idiom to standalone he
certainly would have been a
prominent eminence this
elderly man wearing these ridiculous
pants and stepping out of a bright
yellow sports car
obviously not part of the proletariat of
the poor and attending communist
meetings downtown
now why did he do that you know
um was it because he had something to
give
or something to get or both
you know anyway okay so a question
some really simple questions here which
is fine uh plant-based howard asked are
you a university teacher
no when i lived in china i did have a
job as a
university professor but i was the
english language professor which is a
lower rank than
you know being a phd welding professor
but no
i'm here in canada as a university
student i have a bachelor's degree in
political science and my second
bachelor's degree which is not yet
complete
is basically in chinese in asian studies
chinese japanese the politics and
history of asia so that's
some real basic information and part of
the context for that
goes back to your 2001. okay as i say
i'm happy to answer these questions
audience because the story i have to
tell here is not that long
so all right there were some other
language questions here about language
learning i can't really do everything
in in one video guys um you know
another time let's do a video talking
about uh language learning
but i think if you guys don't know just
look in the description below any of my
videos
and there's a link to a special channel
that is just the language learning
advice
and that channel is basically called
isil mazard it's my name as opposed to a
balacial
so there is a special youtube channel
that and probably your questions about
learning languages
honestly probably most of them are
answered there i've i've
said i've said almost everything you
probably want to hear me say
about learning languages if you if you
scroll through those videos all right so
already in the year 2001
i had started studying both modern
cambodian and pali and their stuff on
the internet
still to prove it whoo that's
embarrassing so i remember myself
as moving to live in asia permanently in
maybe soon as i even missed members do
this i actually did not get to hong kong
until january of 2004
so it was just when the year 2004 says
so there you go in my own memory i
remember that being
soon after 2001. so my you know
so during 2001 2002 2003
i was in toronto uh trying to get
my diploma from university i'd finished
the courses i needed quite a long time
before they gave me the diploma
that's stupid bureaucracy and this kind
of thing so i was
technically still a student at the
university of toronto finished all the
course i needed to do i was studying
british philosophy or studying these
languages i was trying to find a
way forward in my life i applied to go
to school to become
an emt i formally enrolled like i paid
the application fee in philadelphia to
become an emergency medical technician
which is basically to say
a type of special nurse that works in
the back of a
uh an ambulance i applied to become a
police officer
i applied to work in construction and my
father
stopped me my father wouldn't let me get
a job as a bricklayer a working
construction
so in those years there's a lot of
suffering and a lot of agony uh say 2001
2002 2003
but my life in asia actually began in
january
of 2004. uh it felt like a million years
but uh soon enough i moved from hong
kong
to taiwan so i don't know exactly how
many months
it was it was obviously less than one
full year that i was living in downtown
hong kong so it was six months or eight
months or two i don't know
um uh i moved from hong kong to taiwan
got a horrible apartment in taiwan was
living in taiwan
moved from taiwan to bangkok so
apparently i was already in
oh wow that's hard to believe before
2004 it ended i was already in bangkok
maybe i was just visiting that damn
wow sorry it was a lot of living it was
a very intense period of my life
one date that is certain was that i
started living in the capital city of
laos
on march 3rd 2005. so maybe
january february march
how long was i living in bangkok before
i moved to vienna laos i don't know
so in a pretty tight succession in a
very intense period of my life
i moved in to hong kong then taiwan
then bangkok thailand all in between
and the very start of january 2004
through to you know the end of 2005 and
then in march 2005 i'm in vientiane
so guys sorry this really is part of the
background how i ended up married
to my first wife who i'm now getting
divorced from in case you missed the
start of this video or the the
topic of this video um
you know uh
all right i pursued a combination of
humanitarian work
and research in these places when i was
living in
bangkok i was relatively
cash rich and time poor so i had money
but not time because i had a
very exhausting full-time job and i
several times
flights within thailand were very very
cheap at that time an interesting story
there was actually a scandal and
people i think went to jail for it but
there was kind of a price fixing scheme
within thailand to make these
these flights really cheap i read about
in the newspapers i'm not an expert
but flights were like it was like taking
an airplane was like the same amount of
taking a bus kind of thing
but i can remember several times i took
flights from bangkok
out to remote places in northeastern
thailand and i was
really i was living in bangkok i was
thinking do i want to make my future
my immediate future and my scholarly
future do i want to make that cambodia
do i want to make that myanmar or do i
want to make that laos
so we've had some questions from the
audience
um like you know do you regret making
this decision of that decision
one of the biggest decisions i made in
my life was standing at that fork of the
road
look and really four ways one option was
just to stay in thailand
there was no reason to leave thailand
stay in thailand
move to myanmar move to cambodia move to
laos and for different reasons
including my blonde canadian girlfriend
who had dragged over from canada that
time
she felt she was not tough enough for
cambodia
and laos by contrast would be easy
would be survivable and that was one of
the
decisive factors now you know what i
mean sorry i'll just include this so i
don't believe in any
supernatural things
i have no superstitious beliefs but you
know i did once
uh no i've got a question but when is
this book coming out
stay tuned follow me on youtube and
instagram
i'm basically uh i'm busily writing the
last drafts of the book
the book is titled no more manifestos we
had a great question earlier
is no more manifesto it's going to be a
manifest though great question
uh some of my earlier writing i was
writing manifestos in the past and no
i feel i feel that this is not a
manifest it would be an interesting
criticism of the book
if someone would like to write a book
review attacking no more manifestos
as just being another manifesto that'd
be a very incisive criticism but i think
you will see
the book uh in parts it's deadly serious
but you know in parts
it is uh humorous too i mean there's
joking around there too
i i feel it's a roller coaster it's
emotionally exhausting for me to read it
when i read it and i'm doing it like
just
just going through one chapter like i
feel i feel tired
obviously it won't be so gripping for
everyone but if you care about those
political and philosophical
issues um i think it covers issues
honestly that everyone kind of cares
about
it's hard it's hard not to care most
fundamental issues in
in politics then maybe it'll be gripping
and exhausting for you
for you too all right so there's a
question can you release the other
chapters
uh well it will be published as a book
one way or another ultimately
worst case scenario it'll just be a
kindle doc
on on amazon you know it'll be the cheap
self but we'll see
um but you can get chapters the pdf now
if you join my patreon which is one
dollar a month so it's it's really a
kind of
okay so this person asking us already
that's a funny comment someone someone
comments they're keeping it real and
losing friends as a result
yeah that's a great great job for
youtube anyway yeah you can
uh get many of the chapters of the book
but not the whole book right now if you
join my my patreon
and i can send you a link or you can
just search for it but yeah it's there
chapter one two three four five maybe up
to chapter ten
that you can get okay um
so yeah how did i end up with my first
wife
this really is part of the answer to the
question so
my first wife when i met her was a phd
student getting a phd in anthropology
now if you don't know this many areas of
phd studies do not
keep you a prisoner on the university
campus
but send you out in the field to do
research and then you come back
at some point you come back to present
your thesis or write your
uh right exams or what have you so
you know she was someone who was in asia
living in asia and in theory doing
research in asia
but she was on paper still a student
at her university in england getting
this phd so she was you know a field
researcher some people already don't
understand that so she's not in class
she's not attending lectures or anything
like that she's out doing
whatever anthropological research is uh
there were actually a couple of
newspaper articles that referred to me
as an anthropologist i think just
one did it and then another newspaper
article copied the first one it was just
amused me
i did not consider myself an
anthropologist
but i was pursuing a combination of
research
and humanitarian work and the research
research was partly
modern and political about the real
world now as it really is what's really
going on
poverty and war and revolution and
politics all that stuff
and it was partly ancient and
philosophical and you know
and archaeological even you know dealing
with ancient so
i was having a very mentalist in my life
and she was someone
who had come out to young and china
you know signed up for a similar sort of
course of research
but when i met her my ex-wife had
actually
totally lost faith in that course of
action she had totally lost hope
and she had basically decided to drop
out of her phd
um i think she hadn't fully decided as
to whether she was going to drop out
permanently or if she was just gonna
many universities allow you to kind of
put your
phd on pause like where she just kind of
quit for five years and then maybe come
back five years later
but she had actually decided to give up
on her research
she'd given up on a lot of things in
life just at that time
just in kind of a couple months before
she met me including significantly that
she had given up on vegetarianism
she had gone back to eating meat after
many many years of being a vegetarian
so i was at that time what i called
strictly vegetarian
the word vegan was not that common back
then i know you guys won't believe me
but if you're talking about whatever
2001 2005
i was a vegetarian but i refused to eat
eggs
i tried to refuse to own or use leather
living in places like laos and cambodia
i could now tell you a bunch of stories
about how
i did end up using leather because i had
no better alternative
good luck buying boots in cambodia in
2004 or something
with our native leather but anyway
um i lived a life but before i met my
ex-wife
i did have parmesan cheese on pasta
for example but i lived a life that was
pretty uh close to vegan
so i came into her life at a time when
she had really
lost a sense of hope and purpose
about her own research about her own
life as an intellectual and then she
meets
me and i'm this very self-disciplined
very serious very
inspired and inspirational and very
hard-working you know self-made
intellectual i don't have no phd program
i'm not
signed up with anybody i'm writing and
doing research and publishing articles
completely dolo
completely independently complete with
nobody i don't have a teacher
i live for another i never had a teacher
for pally i never had a teacher for
lotion
you know like oh i taught myself lotion
while
boiling my own porridge you know over a
wood fire in northwestern laos
and you know she came from a field she
came from anthropology
where they kind of worship or valorize
going out and living with poor people
in remote villages whether those be
tribal people or what have you
and living with them and studying their
cultures that's what anthropologists
especially respect
it's like oh well i've just been doing
that and you know i'm not i'm not even
part of a phd
this is the stuff i've been doing
because this is what i care about this
is what's meaningful to me in life
uh which by the way i'm totally
self-critical about too i mean
it's not like i'm glorifying this i
don't encourage my viewers to go
through that stuff either you know but
it's like oh yeah i've just been out
doing exactly the stuff my ex-wife
you know was kind of supposed to be
doing but wasn't
my ex-wife was in this kind of downcast
demoralized state
she was talking about dropping out of
her phd program to become a jazz singer
to sing jazz full-time in beijing china
and i came into her life and as soon as
she meets me like
you know these were not hostile
conversations but it's just like she
meets me and says well what
what are you talking about you know you
are in
a phd program at one of the most
prestigious
the most desirable institutions in the
world
and you're throwing it away to sing jazz
you know and you know you're maybe it's
different if you're signed up to be a
jazz singer in los angeles with some big
you know record label
but this is you know this is this is not
the big time or something is being a
lounge singer
in somewhere in beijing where you know
it's probably just to have an exotic
foreigner
who speaks english fluently singing jazz
that's obviously what the
what the deal is here you know what i
mean um i've got some questions audience
i do want to answer but
i don't want to drop myself too much but
anyway i see you guys
uh you know and i came into her life
and then all of a sudden it's like no
look this is what it is to me
lead a meaningful life this is what it
is to wake up and be positive and
motivated every day and this is what
it's like to now be in love with
somebody she fell in love with me
immediately
someone who's really interested in your
research
and i like i'm interested in what she's
reading and i'm interested in what she's
writing and i'm encouraging her that way
you know someone you're talking to about
these ideas day by day and you know you
become a kind of power couple
okay even if it's just listening i mean
a lot of you guys might underrate that
you
whatever field you work at but okay if
you're working in something like
anthropology
and you're all alone and nobody else
thinks that what you do is interesting
you don't know what the point is and the
university degree is never going to earn
you any money and you feel and if she
did feel correctly
that her university was corrupt and that
it was all that is true
and you know she meets someone like me
and my attitude is like yeah yeah the
university is corrupt
the university is but not you
you're gonna be
real in the way that they are fake like
you know
you are gonna do for yourself and buy
yourself
everything they're not doing for you
like you're going to be an auto diet act
you know like here's how to do it here's
that i just didn't make it happen
so she had someone who was in that way a
very positive
influence on her suddenly come into her
life and i was coming out of the
background i just described
uh from 2001 to 2005 right
so oh yeah there is a trip in there to
sri lanka some of the photographs of me
that are still floating around the
internet are from that time
sri lanka so that was december through
january 2006.
i was in sri lanka i have a lot of
memories from that
short trip i continued living in laos
uh 2005 all the way through to september
7th of 2007 so i haven't told it in all
that amusing away on youtube
but i believe twice i've told the story
of how i was suddenly exiled from laos
um and it's a funny story to tell in a
funny way and it's a sad story of
telling a sad way but i was doing
humanitarian work again this combination
of humanitarian work and research
went out to these remote villages where
in theory people were starving
in reality they were what's called food
insecure so if they didn't have this
kind of uh
support from charities and the
government they would have run away to
thailand
they wouldn't have just sat there and
starved to death that's ridiculous but
it was this
politically and ecologically complex
situation frankly
so it was out doing humanitarian work
and that was with a european uh
humanitarian
agency and a member of the lotion
government
uh threatened to kill me there were a
lot of funny details to her threats too
um they were gonna kill me and my
parents would never find my
corpse and then i'd never have a
traditional jewish funeral
i was like you know geez you've really
thought this through
you know what i i laughed at the time i
laughed in her face i thought it was
hilarious
oh no i'm not going to have a jewish
funeral wow
you you don't know too did she get this
out of the like communist party
emmanuel of how to be threatening to
white foreigners is like had she been
trained and what you're supposed to say
we're trying to intimidate someone
it was a really ridiculous uh situation
but yeah i
i was i was given you know death threats
and then the other thing that was said
the situation was and you know and i
could laugh at it
you you guys know me some people maybe
this is their first video uh
watching on my channel i don't know
anyone in the audience if this is your
first time ever watching
a video on my channel say so okay i'd be
surprised but you know i'm a very
self-disciplined very detached person
if you've uh if you don't i was able to
remain calm and attached and
and cool but you know uh you know even
under fire even when you're literally
being threatened with death
and these things you know uh but my
co-workers were not
and my co-workers they were taken in and
uh interrogated by the communist party
and so on there was this whole serious
thing so you know i feel sorry for them
i feel sorry for everyone involved
and so i ended up suddenly exiled
from laos and you know i was told i
could never return or if i did return
i could maybe sneak in and not be
noticed but if if i come back
you know there the equivalent to the cia
is going to be watching me there's
secret service is watching me
which they did eventually i had to go
back because the only money i had in the
world was in a bank account i mean
it was only i had a couple thousand
dollars i figured what i had two
thousand dollars to me or something
and uh there the secret service guys did
uh
you know they did follow me and stuff uh
you know not a big deal
i'm just being honest with you i don't
think that's even you know inappropriate
or something
but yeah i had one i had one encounter
so to be clear it's not that they walk
down the street next to me in this day
and age you don't need to do that for
surveillance
but i remember when i went to a bus
station the intercity bus station
there were intelligence guys there who
were who were watching me and commenting
on me
and they were speaking in code openly
this was a surreal experience to hear
people like
hear people speaking out loud and what's
supposed to be a secret code
bizarre anyway
and i went over i went over and
intimidated them too i don't know if i
already told that story on youtube i
don't think so anyway funny story
anyway uh and look i just want to say i
don't i don't blame those guys i don't
have this kind of hysterical
anti-cia anti-secret service attitude uh
there was one point when i was in yunnan
with my first wife
not any divorce from the top of the
video there was one point when we were
there together
and uh the chinese government had their
secret service checkup on us a couple
times
i think i remember three times them them
coming and checking up on us
and you know i mean you know it's their
job you know i
i i don't see it as such a negative
thing you know
and uh i you know i'm obviously i'm not
a threat to anyone or whatever but
you know they must have a list and how
dangerous you are as a foreigner is
ranked from one to ten
and we were probably a one or a two or
something for suspicious
people but we were more than a zero so
you get you get checked up on to some
extent
and if you guys were following my
youtube career while i was in uh china
most recent when i was there as a
professor you know i had some problems
with computer surveillance
um but the chinese government was very
actively reading and filtering my
emails and they intervened in what i was
doing on my computer and stuff
so in that more impersonal way you deal
with it so that's part of life
in the 21st century and i i accepted it
i'm not
i'm not hysterical about it okay so
we have gone over from 2001
to september 7th of 2007
when my combination of humanitarian work
and research in laos
suddenly comes to an end now
i was again very suddenly unexpected
crossroads and the only things i owned
in the world were
on my back i could have gone to myanmar
i could have gone to cambodia
i could have just stayed in thailand
there are arguments for and against
there um if they if the government of
laos was really going to kill me
or if sorry i shouldn't even say the
government that's not the way communism
works
if some people within the government
wanted to kill me because there were
little gangs
within the government they're little
groups it's not one government that way
and
it's not like it's not like the
president of the country has to secure
there could be five guys who want to
kill you and you're dead you know
in one of these little groups but if if
anyone was gonna follow through
with that threat then thailand was the
most dangerous place you're gonna be
because that's where they can kill you
with impunity um it's easier for them to
kill you in thailand than deal with
in-laws
uh being real with you so there were
that's one if
you take the threat seriously and if you
don't you know you've got other
questions
but hey so you know i could have gone
anywhere and i went to of all places
yanan china and yunnan china
was exactly where my ex-wife was doing
her
phd research that was where we ended up
meeting in person for the first time
so there are no i could tell a whole
long story here i could make this funny
story i could make it a sad story
i could make it a romantic story i mean
i could kind of glorify the
the kind of following love element but
this is the 21st century
so of course email was a fact
there was a professor a white
american he could have been canadian now
that i'm forgetting anyway i believe he
was a white american university
professor
living in hong kong and he found out
about my story in laos
and he shared an email i honestly don't
know i believe it was the email an email
i wrote myself that i sent to my friends
but i believe he shared my email
describing my being kicked out of laos
and
giving death threats and all this stuff
and he shared it with his circle
of colleagues and friends and one of his
colleagues and friends
a guy who had gotten a phd studying in
hong kong
but he was an old man he was like a 60
year old guy if he wasn't 60 he looked
60.
he was a white man who went out to of
all places
jing hong yunnan laos where he met me
sitting in a cafe so this guy with a phd
sits down in a cafe in jing hong
yin and china and he meets me and
uh i started to talk to him and he
he is the guy who ends up sending an
email
to the woman who become my first wife
saying hey you guys should meet up to
talk you guys
so this was the fateful email that
eventually uh
brought us together so yeah i then had a
period of time at the time of my life
living back and forth between
uh thailand and yunnan
and my wife sorry we weren't married yet
but the woman who would later become my
life
was living back and forth between uh
yunnan
and england where she was earning her
phd she's in the process of finishing
her phd so i remain living this very
strange
life i could obviously i have a lot more
to say about these very eventful and
dressing time in my life
but this is uh 2007
on february 18th of 2008
i meet my first wife uh face to face
boy let me tell you something that was a
long year 2017 that was that was a long
year
uh so she is in my life in asia
uh we then moved to england together
on march 23rd of 2009
we're together in england and france and
europe
uh throughout 2009 on
january 21st of 2010
i moved to phnom penh cambodia now this
part of the story i'm telling quickly
we got a great question from the
audience where is yanan
but young is correctly spelled that's
the problem you spelled it correctly
you can spell it you can find it where
it is so anyway someone else says wow
that's a cool meetup story
that it's it's cooler than you know it's
okay i'll say a little bit more about
the geography of this because it's
because it's so crazy
so what the first time she and i met
i was in bangkok thailand
and i remember messaging her and
emailing back and forth and i was like
okay let's do it there was a gap in our
schedule that was just
barely possible and if if you if you
haven't been to google maps in a while
go to google maps
and put in bangkok and then put in
kunming
okay the other end of the world and uh
well we didn't even couldn't make that
we
met in jing hong and then we went to
kunman so that amazing bus ride between
hong kong that that's a life-altering
bus ride in itself
so i said okay let's do it we have this
gap in your schedule before you've got
to fly back to england
i took the bus i was i was poor
and was in a very desperate and
uncertain situation after this whole
situation being exiled from laos
whatever okay let's
this is worth it let's make it happen
let's fall in love
i took the bus from bangkok thailand
all the way north through thailand all
the way north through laos
over the border into china met in
jingong sleep deprived she
took the bus and her bus ride was
actually longer even though it was
entirely within china
she took a bus from her remote field
site where she was doing research
all the way to kunming and then all the
way from kunming to jing hong it sounds
less impressive
that's really mountainous terrain it was
actually a really really long trip even
though she didn't follow it in them and
then we met in person
so that was one really fateful meeting
and then later several chapters later in
the story we had a situation where she
came back from france
and she couldn't get into china that was
again a time of epic bus journeys i had
to come all the way down
from a yunnan to meet her in bangkok and
then uh
had to get her back into china at a time
when french citizens were not being
allowed to re-enter china for
uh for political reasons so yeah there
were there were
sweeping elements uh to their romance
and yeah i mean this is another reason
why i still really
do try to be nice to my ex-wife on the
internet
and i'm again it's just a commitment to
my own
personal sense of integrity she really
loved me she really fell in love with me
she did terrible things to me i thought
the whole relationship
was terrible for me i am i am not joking
i mean i'll say a little bit more about
that just a moment
but like i respect the fact that she is
a woman who
from the first day she met me fell in
love with me this was her dream this was
her fantasy she wanted to make this work
and you know in her way she tried hard
to make this make this marriage work or
make this relationship work
now that having been said um we'll just
tell a really brief anecdote that
illustrates how bad the relationship was
for me because it was bad for me
from the first day the last day uh it
really was
it was it was good for her at least in
some ways
but it was really really terrible for me
when when we were getting close to
breaking up we were kind of negotiating
at the end of the relationship we were
we were talking about what's wrong i
remember she went on this kind of wrong
long rant talking about the different
phases the relationship been through
you guys have gotten some sense of this
video like okay we use first we lived in
this city then we lived in this city
then like you know it breaks itself in
it
she was saying well during this period
this was really great but this is the
problem and then we moved this place and
this was good and this was good but this
was bad
she was kind of and it went on and on
but you know it's
you got to do a lot of listening you
know listen she might have talked for
40 minutes uninterrupted or something
it's this kind of long rant about
i said okay pardon me you know do you
mind if i interrupt you okay
it sounds to me like you are reviewing
the relationship
phase by phase and commenting on
you know the ways in which you were
happy and the ways which you weren't
happy the way which is good for you
is that is that a fair and she was like
yeah yeah i guess you know she was just
being very specific yeah i guess yeah
that's good
so well look got to tell you something
for me there has been no period
of this relationship that has been good
like i can't do what you've just done
like i can't go over the relationship
and talk about pluses and minuses like
for me
this relationship has been one in which
you made commitments to me
and you let me down in which i have been
disappointed in which i have had to
lower my standards
again and again and again it's been one
crushing heartbreaking disappointment
after another
it's been me weeping and having a broken
heart and being
broken down and ruined by this
relationship again and again again
and just be honest like there's a set in
which i can say it didn't get worse
like it was bad from the beginning and
it
stayed bad um now i'm going to say this
partly to put some younger guys on so ah
here's someone who knows what's up
mercia says did you see the red flags
question mark
that is the right question so you mercy
or whoever you are you've been through
some stuff in your life that is
exactly that's exactly our question when
did you see the flag
what i was just gonna say for younger
people who don't who don't know what's
up
you know what changes
over time for you subjectively
is how well you understand the other
person
how well how you evaluate the other
person i'm
someone who's very very hard to
manipulate it's it's very very hard for
women to lie to me or manipulate me
and most of the time my ex-wife just
didn't try like early on in the
relationship she did try
i was just like what are you doing this
is ridiculous you know
it's it's hard to lie to me or at least
it was from ex-wife uh she is not a good
liar
she's not she's not good at lying but i
can remember what she tried to do that
so it wasn't it wasn't anything
so crude as that but as
time goes on you understand that
person's motivations better
you understand why they're saying what
they're saying and what they mean and
what they're upset about
you you understand them better
so even if the relationship doesn't get
worse like if the relationship is just
equally bad over time
you subjectively understand what's wrong
with the relationship
more and more accurately so for you
subjectively it becomes more and more
hopeless
like early in the relationship you see
this problem or she she does this thing
to you
she doesn't think that it's horrifying
and harrowing and heartbreaking for you
but you think okay but now i've
explained to her the problem with that
so she can change
so it's going to change right like it's
going to change next month
and you're with someone for years and
you you both see
you see what they can change and what
they can't change what they can do and
what they can't do
and i gotta tell you this this is true
for everyone for you
you see what's real and what's fake
um one of the things you have to get a
sense
of in a relationship is what is
authentic
and what is the other person just doing
because they think
it's what's going to make you happy it's
what you want to perceive
what you want to hear now that's very
alien
for me on my youtube channel i've talked
about the fact that i don't feel
jealousy
like in some ways i'm a very unusual
person like i just don't feel things
other people feel
um i do do have all the other emotions
frankly
but you know i would never think that
way or actually with anyone in my life
we were talking earlier about my
relationship with my parents like
i never say anything to my parents just
saying oh this is what you want to hear
like i i just don't act that way i just
think oh well
i'm gonna dissimulate i'm gonna i'm
gonna behave
in a way that's what i think this person
wants to see from me or hear me
i never do that i'm very authentic and
very raw and honest with people
and some people hate me for it somebody
said earlier um
that they're keeping it real with people
and they're they're losing friends
results sure
so really briefly i had a friend we
weren't super tight
but i had a distant friend you know i
had a friend and he started working at a
an alcohol factory a distillery you
could say you know
he started he started a job in
albuquerque i said i wasn't offensive i
said look i gotta tell you something
i'd sign up to join the army to shoot
people
but i would never work in the alcohol
business like to me this is really
dishonorable and
this is really immoral to get into
marketing and selling
brain damage in a bottle to people lying
to people and saying hey drink this
poison it's fun
i wouldn't do that but i joined the army
you know i
joined the army and fight for democracy
in afghanistan which is morally
very murky but like saying to him you
know honestly look i see this is much
more
morally murky than joining so i'm i'm
really honest with my friends i didn't i
didn't once think talking to my friend
well how should i
so in this way in this context you know
it was very unusual to me that with my
first wife i was dealing with someone
who would
say things and would do things and would
act in certain ways because she thought
it was what i wanted to see she would to
simulate things you know
um oh that's weird it's weird what this
is what this is censoring
so all right so
suleiman uh your your comment was
censored and i just unsensitive i know
it wasn't me it's the automatic system
they thought that was too hot for
youtube
i see why okay i guess i guess it had
one because i had one pg-13 word in it
okay so we are being censored
automatically by youtube as we go here
uh try not to mention the war anyone
all right so yeah you know
my relationship with my ex-wife and i
remember saying that to her
in that uh in that conversation
um you know it was bad
for me from day one
but what i had on day one was hope hope
that it would get better
and obviously part of that hope and
optimism was based on the idea that this
woman was a real
intellectual this was someone you know
studying
for a phd in anthropology and this is
someone i was going to have this kind of
really productive intellectual
partnership with
as well as a romantic partnership
right and you can look at what my
ex-wife
has done with her life since we've
broken up
and you can look at what she was doing
immediately before we got together
that actually she had lost all interest
in finishing her phd and she wasn't
living like an intellectual and she
never had
before she got with me and you realize
that the wind in her sails
and her positive motivation and sense of
purpose and stuff a lot of that came
from
her romance with me that you know there
was a sense in which she never was
that real intellectual that i wanted her
to be and that
she tried to be for me and i i would
just say i feel that both what she did
before
we got together with her life and what
she did after we broke up
i think that really shows that so to
give a much simple example a lot of you
guys know
some people are vegan while they are
in love with somebody and when they
break up
they stop being vegan well gee why did
that happen well is this who you really
are
or is this someone you're pretending to
be for the person you're in love with
okay
while my ex-wife was with me again she
had she was eating me when we met
she was eating meat she was eating pork
she was eating dead pig flesh when we
got together okay
she meets me she becomes strictly
vegetarian
by my standard of the time which was
like 90 vegan but not 100 percent
oh i mean we did i'm sorry i won't get
into our diet at the time it's probably
because you're living in places like
cambodia
yeah cheese is not a significant part of
your diet but i did i mean during those
years i refuse to eat eggs and try to
avoid using leather but
i was eating cheese and dairy
occasionally it was just small part of
my diet i wasn't 100
and then together my ex-wife and i made
that when we returned to canada when we
return to the western world because
again partly you don't think about it
that much you're living in laos in
cambodia
it's a vegetable and rice and beans diet
you know what i mean it's
like okay we're going back to canada
we're going to switch to being 100 vegan
let's do it so she went from strictly
vegetarian to vegan with me
and for some reason after we broke up
she stopped being vegan
so from my perspective we broke up she
stopped being a real intellectual
stop being a real author stop being a
real researcher
stop being a real vegan and of course
it's very sad for me now that my
daughter was growing up in a non-vegan
household not even vegetarian absolutely
that's that is really segmented
household
you know i'm also against drinking
alcohol on things i don't i don't
believe in any of that
and also you know another thing is um
uh you know uh
sorry some interesting comments here in
the comment section that are a little
bit a little bit distracting it's good
though it's good guys it's not a
criticism
thanks thanks for i appreciate having
this audience who's interested in asking
these questions and uh making these
songs you know so the other thing is the
chinese language
right well my ex-wife also completely
gave up
studying chinese and gave up teaching my
daughter chinese
and the deal was she was supposed to be
raising my daughter with chinese second
language
that's why that's a big part of why i
started learning chinese myself was that
was for my daughter
and that together we were going to give
the next generation ability in
you know english and french and chinese
she'd have this kind of combo coming up
you know so yeah um the last time we
spoke to my first wife face to face that
was me
my current girlfriend and my first wife
all the same together
she said openly she was astonished when
i spoke chinese
and she said you now speak chinese
better than i do
i don't know if that's true um
[Music]
but she said that she had totally given
up studying and practicing chinese and
she had lost
whatever ability she had um that's
that part is certainly believable um
anyway we will see
if in the next few months i'm getting
back into studying chinese seriously
we'll see what i can do with it but i do
not boast about or exaggerate
my ability in chinese which is certainly
certainly unlimited
so look as someone in the in the
audience is raising the issue
of narcissism
look up you know the myth of narcissus
okay narcissism is a cultural concept
it's not medically real the way diabetes
is real and it's never gonna be
you know words like narcissism they
describe
patterns of behavior um
some specialists say you can do an mri
scan
and you can identify certain
abnormalities of the brain
that correspond to narcissistic
personality disorder i'm
open to the possibility that something
like that some diagnosis
like that that's medically real may one
day exist
um one thing that is certain that i've
made youtube videos talking about this
is that my
ex-wife does identify her own
father as having narcissistic
personality disorder
and i made a video pointing out that if
you even just look at some
things my ex-wife has said publicly on
twitter and so on
now you know um
why should anyone have a theory like
narcissism or narcissistic personal
disorder it's only useful
if it's uh if it's an analysis that
reveals something
productive you know what i mean like in
this situation like i'm sorry i'm not
saying this to insult the person who
said it you
they said it in a totally uh productive
and respectful way by the way
many people use the word narcissist as
an insult you know i understand this is
a problem
it's become a fad
you should only bring this kind of
jargon into a situation
if it really explains something if you
have a friend
who really has a lot of trouble losing
weight the concept of diabetes
isn't just an abstract oh well
it turns out we measured your blood
sugar and your pre-diabetic or something
you know like oh okay this is a factor
in your
okay so this is meaningful this is an
analysis that really reveals something
the question i have to ask is what is
revealed by narcissism as an analysis
in what way does it uh in what way does
it solve any problem
or even present a problem to us in a
more useful manner
and look guys i mean i've i've been
through the checklist for narcissism
i've taken the test
racism and i score like a zero
i score incredibly low i'm way below
what's normal or average so i'm an
anti-narcissist according to the test i
mean
you know you can say but i've had other
youtube channels attack me and call me a
narcissist
and if you actually just unpack what do
they mean in calling me narcissist
that i seem self-confident when i'm
talking about
topics i'm really confident about so
right now nobody is asking me about the
politics of jamaica
can you name the prime minister of
jamaica can you tell me about what
happened in the last two or three
elections and jamaica
i can't if we talk about jamaican
politics i'm not going to be
self-confident
but sure when i come on youtube and talk
about things i'm really that i really
know about
i seem so confident and that doesn't
make me a narcissist and it's this very
sad thing but yeah i have taken those
diagnosed tests and i'm not a narcissist
at all
for whatever that means even if it's
just a cultural concept
but uh
for people who do take that test or do
get that diagnosis
you know i'm just i'm just asking you to
reflect on this hypothetically what is
that what does it do for you
how does it help you in life you know
maybe it helps maybe there's something
liberating or helpful or empowering
but um you know i i doubt it
and you know the thing is again with i
see i
really do try to say this stuff in a in
a sympathetic way i'm not here to
present my wife as a terrible person my
first wife
um you know
what if she's not a narcissist
but she grew up with a father who was
one
okay i've met her father he's a terrible
human being and i know what my ex-wife
told me about her father and her
relationship like i know it from her
perspective
and i know my own contact with him and
my own emails back and forth then
many of which are here on youtube and
you can read for yourself if you want to
dig into that it's not that interesting
but
you know what does that tell you
like what if her tragedy is that she
doesn't have that condition or
that pattern of behavior but she grew up
around it
so it's what's familiar now you know a
lot of people their mannerisms and
behavior
imitates their parents down to your
accent and cadence and how you solve
certain problems or you behave in a
fight or something
you know i mean there's there's more
than one possible view to take this but
i've got to tell you i've just talked
through a big part of our personal
history together
and i don't think adding the word
narcissism
i don't think it really adds a lot to
the story you know i don't think it
really explains much or helps much for
us to understand
so like here's here's a version of the
story that doesn't have any narcissism
in it at all okay my ex-wife was someone
who lived
a very mundane and depressing life uh
doing odd jobs
like being a waitress she got through
she graduated from high school
very early because she skipped grades
that she went into
different kind of nondescript work like
waitressing her life didn't have a lot
of meaning in it
she wasn't satisfied she decided
to live a more meaningful life to enroll
in anthropology at university to get on
the path to getting a degree in
anthropology okay
and she gets the university and she
finds it depressing
and corrupt and awful and pathetic and
none of these people are real
intellectuals they're all very shallow
and you know kind of the system is
broken it doesn't give her the meaning
of life
she wanted it all right she starts to
get demoralized
uh she gives up being vegetarian starts
eating meat again
um you know she
[Laughter]
i judge very harshly things like
drinking alcohol
and smoking marijuana probably most of
you in the audience don't but i also see
that as a symptom of losing this sense
of purpose and meaning and positive
motivation
right not i'm not saying she she started
to do the things normal people do in our
culture
when they've lost their sense of purpose
in your life and then she meets me
and she falls in love with me and she
starts doing everything she can
to make this relationship work and she
wants so much to be the woman
that i need her to be you know she she
all of a sudden
you know and all of a sudden she also
doesn't really need her university in
the same way anymore
there were a lot of we went to the
library together you know what i mean we
went and got the books out of the
library
and now all she needs is a desk and
library and i'd i'd cook for her and
make her coffee and she's in this very
warm and positively reinforcing and
collaborative relationship right and in
so many ways it's so
you know loving and wonderful you know
um you know but the problem is
you know her the problem is she's the
wrong person
you know and she's not really who she's
pretending to be and
on the one hand she's constantly
disappointing me and the other hand
she's constantly afraid of disappointing
me even when she isn't
and there's a kind of straining and
internal not like that
and i'm unhappy not because i'm unhappy
with my life
you know i'm unhappy because of her like
during those years i know especially
where i didn't really have other
problems that made me unhappy
yes there's a simplification i had
different jobs by the way that are not
being mentioned here
you know but like it doesn't depress me
it doesn't hurt me it doesn't break my
heart
to have a job as an english teacher or
the job in publishing i had you know i
had struggles at work or whatever
none of that surprised me my problem was
the way my first wife treated me my
problem was her my problem with what she
did to me
every day she made my life miserable
every day and as heartbreaking as the
divorce has been there have been many
contacts in which i've said to people
just including friends who ask you
because there were people who like
assumed i wanted to get
together with her and i say no no no no
i
dumped her and as hard as it has been as
heartbreaking as the divorce process
has been every day that i wake up i'm
so happy that i don't have to deal with
her
just even if i'm waking up alone just to
wake
up and not have to deal with my first
wife it's so
wonderful and living with her was so
terrible
for me for you know really every day for
that whole
relationship all right so i gotta say
you know that's
now this is just a sketch the
overarching
you know picture for for the
relationship and
you know i don't really think there's
any kind of psychological jargon you can
bring in that's going to have any great
um analytical or
curative value you know what i mean it
doesn't solve anything
to start bringing in that jargon and uh
to be clear before we broke up by the
way guys she and i we did go
and see a therapist together i forget
exactly what his title was whether it
was a psychoanalyst or psychotherapist
but you know um you know we did try
doing that stuff and it was just as
useless as everyone
knows it is uh you know so we we gave it
the old
uh college try okay so coming uh
to the end of the story rapidly um
there's are very memorable
years for me so i met my wife face to
face
after having email contact before that
february 18th
2008 we were in asia together
we moved to europe together i believe
in march 23 of 2009 we're then
back and forth between england and
france until we moved to cambodia
in 2010 right we then returned to canada
interestingly via taiwan so we had two
and a half months together
in taiwan in the year 2011 again very
memorable
and then we returned to canada june 27
2011 so now 10 years ago
where she takes up work as a university
professor
and where i unexpectedly become a
university student again
so there are many reasons that are
already obvious to you all for the
divorce
but one of the most obvious
that people keep overlooking is this
in 2011 when i made the commitment
to move to canada we made the decision
okay we're going to stop this life we're
living in asia go move to canada
she committed that i would be able to
return to university
i would be able to get my own phd i'd be
allowed to catch up with her
in effect and we talked through in
detail
what that would mean it was going to
mean that for significant periods of
time
we were not in the same city student
vision canada is a really big country
so if my ex-wife was a professor
in regina saskatchewan the capital city
of saskatchewan
it might be that i would have to go for
my own master's degree or phd
to one of the nearest adjacent cities
like saskatoon or edmonton alberta
or calgary alberta so those are the
closest cities
to regina but they're still really far i
just bet canada it's spread out you know
what i mean
and one of the crucial reasons for
the marriage ultimately failing is that
you know my wife
broke all of her promises on that um
there were a lot of ways in which she
just never really
let my career and my education become
the priority that it needed to be in
those years
2011 2012 2013 that we needed to start
making decisions that that put me first
whereas up until now i've been moving
all around the world for her and i've
moved to saskatchewan forever it's like
well
now i'm at a crossroads in my own career
for what i'm going to do and i've got to
catch up and i've got to have a career
too
i've got to get my own education and
someone and she was very selfish she was
very self-centered she was very
mean and petty and the more you know
palpable human side to that was she said
and you know
i can sympathize but it's it's really
not reasonable she said that she
loved me so much and she needed me to be
in the same apartment with her and
wake up in the same bed with her every
day and she could not stand to have me
you know going back and forth to another
city that was a couple hours away
because i had to get a master's degree
or phd that i thought i couldn't do this
and i said to her every time they came i
said you promised me
this was the commitment you made that if
i moved here for you
you were going to accept this job and
move here that
you would in this way support me i don't
mean supporting me financially
like you would tolerate and be positive
and supportive you know like emotionally
as i went through the process of of
getting my own phd
and she reneged not that she absolutely
could not do that so
look my ex-wife
had conflict with her boss
on that job funny and interesting story
frankly
but not one that we really need to tell
so
quite soon after she started working as
a university professor
uh in regina saskatchewan she was
looking for
the exit switch she was looking to quit
that job and move on and do something
else
she also felt understandably that the
window of opportunity for a
baby was limited um just
as the years go by biologically for a
woman
so the plan shaped up i'm leaving out a
lot of drama that was
really harrowing for me as i hit a
terrible personal low in this period my
own life was just
really really terrible and again really
my problem was how my ex-wife treated me
um but the plan came together for her to
uh quit her job get pregnant
have a baby and then relocate to a new
city and move on to a new chapter in
life
and there were some ways in which that
was a good plan i just mentioned in
terms of
when you get pregnant and when you quit
the job there were some clever things
you know you're gonna be pregnant for
nine months and things were nicely timed
up
and i've got to tell you something um we
sat down with like a blank sheet of
paper
and we talked about moving to and giving
birth in
an amazing list of cities all around the
world but just to give one example
we seriously talked about having my
daughter born in mexico
just just to mention an example of doing
a couple years of her life in mexico
um but obviously talked about thailand
and everything else and
i think we would have been much better
off in thailand than where we ended up
but maybe i'm wrong
um you know but we really talked through
an amazing array of possible strategies
like okay if you're unhappy with your
job and you're going to quit and you
want to have a baby
simultaneously there are like there
aren't just two ways we can do this
there were a hundred ways we could do
this
and we talked through and i did all this
research there's a lot of google
searching involved
i i google researched such a list
of of options and possibilities all
right
now i think enough has been said
to adam right why this relationship
eventually had to end
uh january 22nd 2013. we moved to
purpley and france
march of 2013 i'll leave out the day i
suppose
march 2013 my daughter is born in
the south of france um
[Music]
we moved to taiwan together in november
of 2013. that's the final phase of my
relationship with my ex-wife
and we split up in taiwan we decide
verbally to get divorced
january 10th of 2014.
so the relationship went from february
of 2008
to january 10th of uh
2014 and she got on an airplane
and left with my daughter january 14th
of 2014.
okay so early in this video i explained
that what i know today
thanks to the bluntness of my lawyer
is that basically under the french legal
system
as soon as we got divorced i could not
win
absolutely nothing positive uh could
come out of the divorce process too
and if i had known that at the beginning
that would simplify things she and i did
talk
in the beginning we did have a kind of
cooperative strategy
so i did not expect and there was no
reason to expect
that at the end of the relationship um
you know we just kind of slam the door
and never talk again or something or
slam the door and i'd never seen what
are that wasn't what i expected
at all i thought she'd have a short
period of time
kind of recovering emotionally just from
the actual separation
but then we'd start talking it would be
a bunch of again we talked about the
stuff before
we split up including on the day where
we went to the airport
i mean i was positive and encouraging
and cooperative right at the end right
you know i helped her pack and i carried
her suitcases and went to the airport
and
you're on the train talking and stuff
all that time
going to the airport and helping her go
and obviously in the days before they're
talking about where you're going to move
and what you're going to do and stuff
and um you know again my attitude was
okay well that's you know like if you're
gonna move to new york i'll move to
montreal
or something like that so that's you
know across the border from new york
and you know we can co-parent i can
support you in this sense but you know i
won't be too close you won't like you
won't see me sometime when you don't
want to see me
but i can come over every second weekend
or whatever's appropriate whether it's
once a month or whatever you want
and you know then if and when you have a
problem if you need me suddenly i'll be
able to quickly come
or it can be victoria in seattle or
vancouver in seattle or something
this was talked about before we split up
and you know obviously if she was going
to be in europe
it would be different she didn't want to
live it i mean she was not planning to
live in france or germany at that time
but i was generally just positively and
encouragingly
you know disposed towards whatever it
was she wanted to do in life
and the other attitude i could have had
was that i needed to make my own career
in education
my top priority which is what we needed
back in 2011
as mentioned that was a problem
throughout well
just be honest here it wasn't a problem
throughout the whole relationship it
wasn't
it was a problem from 2011 until the end
of the relationship like it was a
problem for the
the last phase the issue of saying look
i keep being made priority number five
or number 10 here
like what matters to me is the lowest
priority and i'm married to someone
who's
incredibly self-centered and
self-serving and selfish
and it's not just ruining my life short
term because it is short term it's
making everything in my life miserable
but there's ruining my life long term so
i could have come out of that with a
sort of resolute sense of
i need to do what's best for me long
term like never before
but honestly i didn't i loved my
daughter
i still love my daughter and i was
certainly comfortable
making seeing my daughter my top
priority you know what i mean like that
was totally reasonable to me
and in terms of the legal situation um
[Music]
we talked about it and she and i talked
about it before we split up and and
at the time we split up you know i mean
what made sense was for us to be 100
cooperative it was just like look
however many thousands of dollars we've
got
why spend them on lawyers there is no
point like again we don't own a business
together we don't own a car
together there's nothing to split up
like let's just talk to each other and
cooperate
and you know and get divorced you know i
do want to legally get divorced
but have a collegial divorce and then
like let's not have a lawyer force us to
have joint custody
let's just actually positively co-parent
and you know you get on with your life i
don't know
and again i am not a person who feels
jealousy if
you know i am not i i'm so happy that
she's sleeping with someone else i'm so
happy that she's in love with someone
else if she gets married to someone else
i'm so happy for
i am just not it's not my problem
i don't have any problem i'm not a
controlling person i'm not a jelly
jealous person it's just like great you
do something positive your life i'm
gonna do something positive
and let's co-parent i was not just
willing
to make co-parenting my top priority um
i was eager to do so you know but
instead i found myself put into this
surreal position
where after a long period of silence
where again i was i can all my emails
that time
i'm writing to my wife saying look you
know
we have to cooperate you have to think
positively about the future
like you have to think about this stuff
positively think about our daughter like
we have to
work out whatever the co-parenting is
going to be or like we have to work out
how this
we have to cooperatively get divorced or
something there was this
long period of silence and then
suddenly all of the skullduggery that
had gone on behind my back
was revealed so in fact my ex-wife
hadn't just been conspiring with lawyers
she had been conspiring with my own
parents behind my back and she had been
trying to put together this dossier that
said all these terrible things about me
and ultimately she got me declared
missing without a trace legally dead and
carried out
legal procedures against me where i
wasn't represented
now at the time
that felt terrible in part because i
thought i was being cut off
from my daughter right what i know now
is the french legal system
is such nonsense that i would have been
cut off from my daughter anyway
that all this crap my ex-wife did it
made no difference
and you know she didn't just she didn't
just gather legal documents from my
uh from my parents like she she had
photographs of my parents
and my parents meeting with her she did
all this stuff to make it seem like i'm
some kind of psycho and it's
i just say it's not convincing it's just
bs it's just nonsense
she got in touch with my former
employers my former bosses and like
interviewed them
i don't know if they managed to make it
sound more menacing translating into
into french she put together this hit
piece about what a psychologically
disturbed and disturbing character i
am and how i disappeared in taiwan
she paid a private investigator in
taiwan
to investigate how i had disappeared
during a period of time when i can prove
in my lawyer improvement court
she had constant email contact with me
she like
quoted one email out of context where i
just say like i'm unhappy and
i'm happy because i'm thinking about
seeing my daughter again how hard it's
going to see my daughter again
and like she quoted one other email out
of
context like you know we'd be having a
fight
honestly these emails aren't even rude
i'm not ashamed of what i said these
emails are i'm really i'm really not
a lot of them are really well written to
be honest i feel very well written
emails maxwell
but it was like you know one email
account and said look
i'm not going to talk to you about this
again and like presents this like oh you
see like she received these emails then
he disappeared
like even if you read the emails before
and after that they're like all these
positive emails saying look
we need to cooperate we need to think
about the future it's like
if you just read what was said like the
day before and the day
after that it's obvious there was an
ongoing conversation i hadn't
disappeared and
like you know what was the meaning of
like you have one email saying i'm gonna
have you of course i'm happy i'm
thinking how much i miss my daughter
like
what you know this was like to insinuate
to the court that i had committed
suicide when i was in taiwan
and i disappeared without a trace and
then they can carry
so then there were a lot of other false
expectations moving forward
so as i said at the very end of the
story
i've ended up having one legal team in
france to deal with custody and one
legal team in canada
just to deal with a divorce divorce and
custody being separate
but i tried so hard to do
all of the legal paperwork in france to
have the divorce
and everything just done by lawyers in
france in part because
guys a crime was committed here it's
like
we have proof on paper that my ex-wife
did something
criminal against me you know to deprive
me of my rights in court like i was
never dead and what she said about these
emails is a lie
if you go through this stuff in detail
there were a lot of lies in here and
lying to the court as a crime
there's also this weird admission that
my ex-wife owes me this money
and i don't care about the money but
legally all these things are leveraged
like okay you're guilty of several
crimes i'll mention another one just a
moment
you admit that you owe this guy money so
can we sit down and have a settlement
finally and set up a normal co-parenting
can we have a normal divorce and
co-parents can we just use this as
leverage to get on with
signing a reasonable agreement here and
as time went so there was all this
pressure on me to try to solve this
in france to just have teams of french
lawyers with you one after another
at one point at a very expensive
canadian international legal team
which is a canadian law firm but that
was working with an office in france
they accomplished
nothing and you know with each lawyer
you know thousands and thousands of
dollars get wasted and months and months
go by
and nothing is accomplished i mean i
could get into here a critique of the
french legal system
and let's just give you one surreal
example this is several lawyers ago this
is not my current lawyer
but remember a lawyer asking me like oh
well
why didn't you keep all the family
identity papers
so in france there's like vivret de femi
like these are these are identity
documents that you need often for
example when accessing medical care or
government services you need these kinds
of government
it's not a driver's license but it's
it's one of those
it's like i'm sitting there like
what kind of psychopath when breaking up
from his ex-wife would be like oh and
i'm keeping all the government id
documents
like what that would be so crazy and
abusive what do you mean
like she of course i want to support her
i want her to have a good life of course
i'm going to let her have the government
id documents i'm not going to try to
keep that for myself
oh well guess what in the french legal
system you can't do any of this stuff
you have no rights
if you don't have those doc if you
didn't hold on to if you didn't
physically
like mess up your ex-wife's life if you
didn't mess up her life by keeping those
documents
then you can't go to court you can't do
this you oh it's such a bad system
in the french legal system and
particularly the divorce system i
learned all the ways in which it is just
a
hilariously awful system so the sense of
shock and sadness and betrayal
when my ex-wife's kind of scheme was
revealed in these legal documents so
like
what she did took up a lot of time
and it included her writing to me at one
point this is
evidently part of the scheme she was
writing me saying she was going to move
here she was going to move and join me
in victoria canada
and she said you know so you know where
do you live she was asking for different
details
and i was like oh okay and i started
describing to her and again we still
have all these emails email was
never disappears you know what i mean
she said okay well this is the
neighborhood i live in and this is
whatever
and so we have all this discussion about
her allegedly
possibly moving to victoria canada to
join me here with my daughter
which again had a big uh emotional
impact okay so you're offering to move
to the same city so we can co-parent
okay well that's positive
right and then you know couple months
later
you find out okay she's taking this
stuff
just a dishonest stupid bunch of legal
documents and you're claiming i
disappeared way back when i was in
taiwan
and you haven't heard from me since then
you think i'm dead i'm missing
and i have emails to prove you were
talking to me about what neighborhood i
was living in and what i was studying at
university and i was doing with my life
we have all these like positive and
cooperative emails again i'm keeping it
uh polite in these emails and so on you
know oh and instead you're gonna present
to the court like i get the word even
bad it's like oh you have one quote from
me in one email saying that i'm
feeling sad and one saying like hey
don't talk to me like that after she
said something hurtful to me you know
like it's you know
uh and if you don't if you can't
represent yourself in court if you've
been declared missing without a trace
you don't have a lawyer there and you're
not there
if i had been there i could open up my
laptop and look honor
you're on it look you want to read the
rest of the email conversation what are
you talking about
whoa um you know the impact of the time
was the sense that oh
something better was possible i could
have been part of my daughter's life if
only
my ex-wife hadn't done this to me
legally if only this if only that was
like oh god you know
something better is possible but what i
know now is
nothing better was ever possible because
the french legal system
has always been broken and is broken and
it is this
broken for each and every man who gets a
divorce in france
if you do not have positive voluntary
cooperation
from the woman in france you don't have
an
amiable divorce the french divorce
system
is broken so just two of the crimes that
exist on paper i don't mention this real
briefly
in france for my ex-wife
to have sex with another man and get
pregnant with another man's baby and
give birth to another man's baby
while she is legally married to me is a
crime
now that may sound old-fashioned but it
makes sense because the government is
trying to avoid exactly these situations
now
also legally if she has sex with another
man and gives birth to another
child while she is legally married to me
it is presumed to be my child
right so that's their that's their legal
system it's like okay so look so a crime
has been committed here i'm not jealous
i'm not angry but again so can we use
this as leverage in court say look we
need to settle this case this is
ridiculous
they've already been separated for five
six seven years they're living separate
lives
she's giving birth to another man's
child like give this guy his divorce
give him his rights of custody and
visitation like can't we
and it is it's a crime right on paper
the lies
that were told in those legal documents
are
crimes right this is a type
of procedural fraud but what i found out
is and again my current lawyer is very
honest
yes you're correct these are fr these
are crimes this is fraud
and you have all the evidence it's not
there's no matter of opinion you have
exact dates for all the emails you have
you can prove everything
you can show exactly what was said in
the earlier court documents
none of that stuff can change but guess
what in the french legal system there is
no justice for anyone
nobody cares nothing's gonna change and
so
you know the fraud the dishonesty the
misconduct the backstabbing the scheming
you know during a time
during a time when i really depended on
my parents
not so much for money but for advice and
encouragement you know after i had
broken up with my wife
and i was trying to start a new life i
was trying to decide what that new life
should be
you know it just i could do anything but
you know i was i decided not to go back
to laos or not to go back to thailand or
not to work on lotion as a language
and not to work on cree or ojibwe's
language i had a lot of big decisions to
make
with long-term implications you know i
really relied on my parents
to have someone in my corner to talk to
about like you know like questions like
what should i be studying university
that really mattered to me
during that time my parents were behind
my back
conniving with and plotting with my own
ex-wife
against me and they were meeting up with
her in secret and meeting my daughter
in secret and they were lying but they
they concealed it from me
and they were i mean my father was a
very stupid very crazy guy and
i was wondering why he said something he
said well he was saying those things
because he was on her side
and you know
my ex-wife is a very bad liar
my mother also is not very good at lying
i must say you know
i i don't even think my ex-wife really
lied to my parents like i don't think
she really
sold them some kind of complex parallel
reality
i think my parents just made up in their
own minds what they want to believe and
i've seen them do that
in many different points in their life
like i don't really blame
my ex-wife for this i really blame my
parents
um but devastating emotionally
devastating to see that
and i've said to my own parents many
times
i didn't see my daughter for two years
because of you
if you had just done the right thing and
stood by your own son and we had gone
through a normal
divorce and custody procedure in these
two years if you had just been honest
with me
instead of conspiring against my own
ex-wife against me i would have seen my
daughter in these two years
or even if you allow one year for
lawyers and paperwork it would have been
one year i got to see my daughter or
something
you know that that had these terrible
long-term contracts
so there's been a lot of uh sorrow for
me to carry
but that sorrow largely exists
because of and arises from and begins
and ends with this idea
of the possibility that there could have
been something better
what i've learned
the moral of the story is that the
french system is so badly broken
that i no longer believe anything more
positive
was possible there never was a better
possibility of how things could end up
for me and my daughter
and that's sad for me but let me tell
you something
it's really sad for my daughter we saw
my daughter
four times in two years and that was
thanks to a
writ of mandated writ of mandinus pardon
me
a court decision a very peculiar court
decision not
a divorce settlement not a separation
agreement this bizarre
writ we got from a court when i was
declared not to be dead and not to be
uh missing so we got four trips
in two years where we saw my daughter
for just a few days
on each trip huge amount of money huge
amount of time huge huge had a huge
impact on my life yeah we're stopping
this story
we're not going all the way to the
present day but this had a huge impact
on what i was doing with my studies my
life my career and of course my
my youtube channel right um
you know even just seeing her
four times in two years basically spaced
out every six months
we had a big positive impact on her life
for her to spend
those vacations with us was
really important and you know i got the
funniest email
imaginable for my ex-wife after one of
those trips
i think maybe it was the second trip i
forget where she came back and she said
well our daughter has come back to me
and now she wants to be vegan and she's
talking about how
she wants to eat broccoli and all this
stuff and things she was blaming it on
me she like had all these complaints
like as if i'd programmed
my other stuff and i said to her look
you have to understand
our doc she's a very strong willed kid
our daughter look she has a mind of rome
i didn't tell her any of this stuff like
this is really like what you're
reporting me this is her
she's making this stuff up like she you
know this is her own initiative
you know i we didn't we didn't program
her to be vegan or something but we had
discussions with her about veganism we
had discussions with her about
uh christianity and judaism history and
socrates so you guys know we challenged
socrates with sacmas
um we played video games with her we
went swimming in the ocean
we did tour stuff but like i've got to
tell you for those two years
we just got to see her four times tears
we were a very meaningful part of her
life that had a really big impact
and yes it is very sad for me that the
french legal system has made it
impossible no matter how much money i
spent or no matter how much money my
mother spends
it has made it impossible for me to be a
part of her life but it's really sad for
my daughter
you know and in terms of my ex-wife's
motivations
you know something i've often said when
i talk to other parents
not even single parents when i talk to
their married parents
a lot of time it's like
can can't you
just imagine you're in her position even
if you have some kind of grudge against
your ex-husband
wouldn't you like to take a vacation
once in a while wouldn't you like to
leave your kid
for a few days with your ex-husbands you
could just have a few days off
wouldn't you rather cooperate with your
ex-husband if it's someone like me who's
really positively motivated and really
wants to be a father and really really a
moral upstanding person
i get it the morality the morality can
bore some people
but in someone who drinks zero alcohol
does zero drugs is really committed to a
life of sobriety and hard work and
intellectual endeavor and charity and
politics and a pause that's like
i've got all this kind of positive love
and influence to give and share
and i want to do it it's like and you
are telling me you're shutting that guy
down
and you know like if my ex-wife allowed
me
to just take care of my daughter for one
month a year
that would give my ex-wife one month in
which she
could do her own research she could
pursue her own career she could go on
vacation
sure but if her phd is worth anything to
her she can write a book you can take
one month and write an article or write
a book
i mean if i were taking care of my
daughter for just one month a year that
would be such a benefit to mac's wife as
well as being such a benefit
uh to my daughter so yes it's sad for me
but it is not
sad for me only
[Laughter]
junebug asks what chapter is this now
or are we just at the blurb
well guys from my perspective uh the
topic of this video is now over
uh we've come to the conclusion thank
you all for for uh being here
um i don't think there are any any
questions here i'm i'm
just scrolling through i don't think
there's anything i've got to jump back
to ask i totally understand
but uh that you know some people are
interested in learning languages
and some people are interested in
talking about veganism uh
okay sorry so here here's a quote i just
mentioned this briefly because this is
still a fact in my life
so i'm a canadian but i'm uh in love
with an america
so someone asked what was your reason
for not wanting to live in new york
if your ex-wife and child were there
well sorry if you guys don't know the
bus between
montreal and new york is pretty quick so
i said i'd be it somewhere like uh
montreal um where you can take a bus to
new york pretty quickly and easily
well you know the difference between
being canadian and american really
matters the legal difference
matters i don't have the right to live
in the united states american i don't
have the right to work
in the united states america so that is
that is one of the big fundamental
factors
and again so i think this has been the
light motif for the whole video
there have been many times where i was
beating myself up thinking oh
if only i can get french citizenship if
only get french
residency even so i've applied for a lot
of jobs in france
melissa's been through this where i was
applying for jobs in france and when we
were thinking what if we moved to greece
uh like if we just get permanent
residency or citizenship in greece then
we're a citizen of an eu country
then i could see my life there were all
a lot of time and energy and work went
into
what if i live in france what if i live
in europe what if i live in greece what
if i have legal status doing this
whether that was as a baker we talked
about we talked about moving to europe
i went into a lot of detail i looked
into opening a bakery in ireland
to become a permanent resident of
ireland because ireland is in the
european union
and we looked at all kinds of stuff in
france opening an english language
school in france starting a business in
france
opening a small hotel in greece you're
like i went through a lot of options and
it was all
for my daughter and about my thinking
well then maybe i can have legal status
and now i know i mean look guys if you
want to move to greece move to greece if
you want to move to ireland move to
ireland
but if i had done any of that if any of
those plans had worked out
i would have been doing it for nothing
because nothing would have helped me
with illegal situations
there was no hope there was no reason
for hope there is never going to be
justice about the crimes my ex-wife
committed
there is never the courts are never
going to care nothing is going to be on
my side ever
and even though you know i can blame
like some of the lawyers i had in the
past were bad
again my current lawyer i like i like my
current lawyer in france
but i've had bad lawyers in the past but
the tragic truth is even if i'd had
better lawyers uh it wouldn't have made
a difference
so yeah and um you know and look guys
some of you know what my daughter looks
like and some some don't yeah
she has she's spent so little time with
me growing up i spent the first year of
her life with her when she was a small
baby
i took over every day and i haven't
talked about that that chapter in this
video
but there was a time uh there was a time
when you know uh you know
anyway there was a time when my whole
life consisted of waking up in the
morning and
playing with my daughter and feeding my
daughter and taking care of her and then
when we saw her a couple years later
when i went to visit her with uh
with melissa there was a time when my
daughter didn't believe
that i was her father she liked me but
she didn't think i was her father
and i showed her the photographs and
videos of me playing with her as a
as a baby i was like no no i really like
and you know i look the same i look the
same now and when she was a baby
i she doesn't look the same she looks
totally different because she was a tiny
baby
i was like no like this was my life like
during the first year of your life
and i was there when she took her first
steps and i had
no job in that time i was a 24 7
stay-at-home parent
and i uh i cleaned the uh we had one of
those
plastic soft mats you sit on the floor
in pieces
we sit down these these kind of
marshmallow like
uh layer of padding on the floor and
every night i wiped
uh because sanitize the floor with with
soap and water with you know
antibacterial stuff and i was with her
when she was playing on the mat i
cleaned up mad
i rocked her to sleep and so i had a
very intense first year of her life with
her
and then the legal apparatus you know uh
separated me from her and
you know um yeah
given that i spent so little time with
her during those years it
is striking how much of her character
just
genetically seems to resemble me so yeah
she does resemble the way i looked when
i was a small child in terms of her her
hair
especially i had big curly hair there
are ways in which she resembles me in
her face
but most striking is the resemblance in
character
and you know my mom has met her and my
mother also
commented that i was a very
strong-willed child
and if i wasn't by the way i would have
ended up a broken person
like some of my brothers and sisters
my father had nine kids eight nine of
them turned out like me
guys uh not everyone's strong enough to
thrive on
what i had to come through in life you
know but i was this very
strong-willed curious pugnacious kid
but also just kind of very sure of
himself and morally and so on and
feeling what's right wrong
and even you know my mom commented this
like wow
you know there's this there's this
really strange continuity of character
between you and your daughter where
she also has these you know these
qualities that come out
even as a even as a small child so yeah
i mean that's very
striking and you know um
you know i i gotta say this guys i don't
believe in
genius in the way that other people you
know talk about genius
but i mean when my daughter was like
three years old
she was talking at such a high level was
that the first trip was she still
three four okay she had right she had
just turned four
right like that no okay okay okay she
turned my
before a few months i don't know why i
remember that i guess because i was
worrying about that when i was worrying
about
planning the trip she was three but she
turned four
uh that but i mean when she was
four years old
her speaking ability in english and
french
were amazingly high um for a
four-year-old she really spoke at
such a high level um you know i mean she
is a normal kid
but she could speak english and french
really well
at that age and you know you wonder
you know there's always this awareness
when you know guys
um i did a video recently talking about
homosexuality
i'm freaking what's the guy's name
though right milo iannopolis right so i
did a video a critique of milo
yiannopoulos who currently claims that
he's ex-gay
but you know there's a funny moment in
that video where i quoted milo
yiannopoulos and he's talking about how
handsome
he's been all his life and he says well
you know some people they're gay but
they represent the fact they never
really had the kind of romantic life
they wanted to have they never
you know uh you know they never had the
kind of love life they wanted to have
they felt rejected a lot they felt they
weren't attractive enough he said well
that's that's not my experience he said
and he
talks about the fact that he considers
himself tremendously attractive and that
he's always had plenty of people falling
in love with him and so on
and the other the person interviewing
him seems kind of taken aback
by this lack of humility or whatever and
milo yiannopoulos just says look you
know still look i'm telling my story
like you know this is
like this is the truth of my you know
some people are good looking and have a
lot of
you know some people are ugly you know i
mean just say milo yiannopoulos he's a
deeply dishonest person in many ways but
that was an interesting you know
honest moment you know i'm someone
who uh
i'm someone who was seen
as extraordinarily talented and
extraordinarily
intelligent from a very early age by
very many people
who should have known you know who were
in a position to know what they were
evaluating
and i didn't feel that way about myself
and i didn't see it in myself and i
didn't understand
the difference to me and other children
and i'll be honest i still don't
and i think i don't understand it
because i don't want to you know
it's it's possible i've told this story
before this may be something my daughter
relates to one day
um i switch between schools
in what we call the senior kindergarten
year so
you guys can look at is that four years
old something like that was young for my
grade
so most of the time i was a year younger
you know i was six months younger than
other people whatever but you know
so i was maybe three and a half or
something i was at three and a half or
four
thing with this third so i was a really
little kid um
senior credit card year and i switched
schools and uh
it was it wasn't the first day of school
it was like you know
and so the kids they already had their
routine like they weren't like they
weren't like being shown like this is
the gym this is the classroom
um anyway i'm sorry this was either
senior kindergarten or it was the very
start of grade one for me but i believe
this was
senior kindergarten here when this
happened the story uh yeah i'm certain
of now senior kindergarten
i was taking to the gym and
all the other kids just started
screaming like animals and running in a
circle
the teacher just said free run and the
kids were screaming
and the gym was echoing and this was
horrifying
and i i walked up to the teacher who was
an idiot by the way i remember that
from realtyjugg i said why are they
doing this
like what's wrong with them why are they
screaming and running and they're like
what
again i was this is my first day you
know and
um she said oh they like it yeah you
should try it yeah they scream right
it's like
this this was kind of demarco lay with
you the rest of my life
and like you know what i'm looking at
these kids it's like what is wrong with
you like how can you be so
stupid like how can you imagine what are
you doing right
and i tried it for a minute it's like
well okay the teacher told me to
everyone's
i put my hands up and i i i yelled and
shared
and after like i don't know i did it for
like 60 seconds or what but after sure
and i watched them she's gonna say i
can't do this like what do you think
like
i'm not an animal like i'm not like like
i can't just scream and run as
what like like i'm not a dog in the park
running after a frisbee or something
that would be better i mean catching a
frisbee is not that much
like it was really disturbing you know
what i mean and uh
look you know i i don't believe in
genius and there's a sense in which i'm
discussing my channel i don't even
believe in talent
you know like people see you in a
situation where you're really good at
something and so yeah well guess what
i've been working on this for the last
five years or something
whatever it is well it seems to you like
i'm just naturally talented but actually
five years of hard work led up to this
you know the way people perceive
talent the way people are teaching look
i don't know
but i am someone who from kindergarten
through to the end of university you
know
you know people were taking me aside
again and again and telling me
that they really thought i was a genius
that i they really thought i had
something
something special and you know i
remember one professor his way of
learning it they said in different ways
but one professor
he said to me in every generation there
are only a few guys
born like you and what i said back to
him just interesting is what i said in
that one i
i smiled at him ironically because i was
uh be honest i was kind of sick of
hearing it i
i kind of had a scorn for people who
told me that they thought i was a genius
i felt that a lot of the time for them
it was an
excuse for why they were so bad at their
job
like well i'm not really gonna help you
i'm not gonna really teach you anything
but you're special you can go teach
yourself and i kind of stay back look
i'm not flattered i actually want you to
step up and do your job
you know it was kind of how i felt about
the situation but this this particular
professor he really meant it
i mean you know and i uh i know he
didn't say it to other people
um not gonna sort of tell the whole
story here
but you know um when he said that to me
my answer in the moment was to smile at
him
kind of ironically and i said to him are
you
sure that we're so rare or is it just
that
so many of us commit suicide
and he that that that really meant a lot
to him that answered
was very moving for the professor it was
kind of an interesting moment for him
and you know he was reflecting on his
life now i learned more about his story
later
but uh i he apparently was
a very gifted young man who was also
very suicidal
during those years of his own stroke and
felt nobody understood him
but yeah anyway um so yeah you know
um i think if you're a basketball player
you have a kid and you wonder are they
gonna be
six foot or seven foot tall like me are
they gonna be as tall as me
are they going to be as good a
basketball are they going to inherit
some of the gifts
that define my life and sure
you know you wonder uh you know with my
daughter is she going to have some of
the talents
that define my life and could it be that
she really has a better shot
at using those talents than i had
because in a lot of ways i was born into
uniquely disadvantageous circumstances
uh in toronto
having frankly insane communists for
parents
and being in a really terrible education
system
that was going through a period of
really difficult transition
uh just to say if i had been born 20
years earlier in canada
in many ways i would have had a better
education uh interesting thing to
reflect on too
um but yeah so it was a bad political
period bad institutional period
and you know i had a lot of
disadvantaged life and i didn't really
have the encouragement and the advice i
needed
if some of my older brothers had not
been completely worthless and
offered me advice that could help me but
like a lot of you people i just grew up
playing video games and completely
ignorant
and with nobody to help me or advise me
when i considered things like you know i
considered going into studying
you know latin and greek and i thought
it was impossible for me
now i know it would have been incredibly
easy for me you know
um and nobody nobody ever talked me
through you know i didn't have someone
sane and helpful to talk to
studying latin i didn't have someone
saying helpful talk through joining the
army or any other
career options and that was covered in
this video if you go back and watch you
know that i talked about around the year
when i was considering and actually
applied for becoming a police officer
uh becoming a type of emergency a nurse
emergency medical technician you know
when a lot of different
career paths were really being seriously
considered in research and even applied
for i was getting the books and studying
for them and stuff
but i had no idea what to do next
because
in the ways that really matter my own
family had failed me
and the canadian education system had
failed me
so yeah there's that sense of um
could i help my daughter in exactly the
way that i needed help
as an intellectually inclined you know
young man
and of course i want to be there for her
emotionally and personally in
every other way but yes um
you know i i have said to melissa
it's just the sort of thing you gotta
talk about look if our
was gonna say if our daughter she
doesn't she my daughter refers to most
as her mom
and she was very very loving she really
really loved melissa
intensely it made me sad she liked
melissa more than she liked me actually
that's okay uh i have more in common
with her than melissa does but she
really did love melissa and she really
she said many times that she wanted
melissa to be her mom and she wanted
most of the beer real mom and so on
and we tried to get her said look you
know that's going to hurt it's going to
upset your
your own mom it's going to upset my
ex-wife you say that so don't
don't say that we like thank you but you
know we shouldn't talk that way
we were really trying to scourge but she
was very very enthusiastic about melissa
as a second
uh mother figure there was a there's a
big connection there that
that mattered to both of them um
[Music]
but it meant a lot to my daughter but
anyway i have said to
uh melissa look if
my daughter grows up and wants to go
into wrestling
we have to support her like it we can't
railroad her or presume that she wants
to be an intellectual or wants to be
involved in politics
it she could become a long distance
bicycle athlete or she could be
or she could become a police officer or
go into the military she could join the
french foreign legion you know
i don't know if they take women in any
case
she could become you know whatever uh
she could join the u.s marine corps
whatever
you know um
you know we have to be prepared to love
her and support her and be understanding
if she wants to do something
that seems totally out of character you
know for me
because she's not me however yes it is
very striking how much she had in common
with me when i was a child like that
without spending time with me it's not
that she's learned from my example or
from my behaviors now it really does
just seem to be genetic
it seems to be despite her upbringing
you know with her mother
and yeah you know you really wonder when
you look at your own life
and you know you know um i know what
held me back
it's like can i be there can i help this
kid who maybe has some of the same
talents and inclinations
um to to provide the encouragement and
guidance that i
lacked and again if she decides to be a
wrestler
[Laughter]
i don't know what's another good example
i don't know uh women's basketball
i don't know you know if she decides to
go in some totally different
direction of course you know i'm
committed that i can
you know i could be there for her that
way too um
but sure when you see someone who's
strikingly so much going with you
you wonder if if maybe that's the most
important
okay guys great talking with you and uh
i think now week by week
uh let's say next tuesday i'll put up
warnings next time
you're going to see more of me streaming
live and uh you're going to see more of
intellectual and political substance as
i live my life and then share it with
you
on youtube rather than necessarily
producing content
for youtube that might in a sense
subtract from the rest of my life